.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" $XConsortium: Xmips.man,v 1.6 91/07/29 16:34:18 rws Exp $
.TH XMIPS 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
Xmips \- Mips server for X Version 11
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Xmips
[ option ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xmips
is the server for Version 11 of the X window system on Mips Computer hardware.
It is normally started by
.I xdm (1),
or
.I xinit (1).
.SH CONFIGURATIONS
.I Xmips
operates under RISC/os on workstation configuration systems.
Under RISC/os you should use unix domain connections
(:0 as host specifier) for local connections.
.SH OPTIONS
.ift .ta 10.8m
.ifn .ta 15n
.br
\fB-bp\fP \fIcolor\fP	set default black-pixel color
.br
\fB-wp\fP \fIcolor\fP	set default white-pixel color
.\" will be de-supported in RW5.0
.\" .br
.\" \fB-mb\fP \fIsize\fP	size of motion buffer (0-1024)
.br
\fB-plock\fP	process lock the server
.br
\fB-tlock\fP	text lock the server
.br
\fB-dlock\fP	data lock the server
.br
\fB-nice\fP \fIincr\fP	change the scheduling priority of the server
.br
\fB-noreset\fP	do not reset on last client close
.br
\fB-visual\fP \fIPseudoColor|StaticColor|GrayScale|StaticGray\fP
.br
.ift .in +10.8m
.ifn .in +15n
use grayscale/color visual
.br
Note: The \fB-visual\fP option overrides the standard server option \fB-cc\fP.
.ift .in -10.8m
.ifn .in -15n
.br
\fB-xled1\fP	use led for xled1 instead of Scroll Lock
.br
\fB-xled2\fP	use led for xled2 instead of Caps Lock
.br
\fB-xled3\fP	use led for xled3 instead of Num Lock
.\" not really for customer use, not supported in 4.10/5.0
.\" .br
.\" \fB-inputext\fP	enable the input synthesis extension
.br
\fB-enable\fP \fIcolor|mono\fP
.br
.ift .in +10.8m
.ifn .in +15n
Enable only the color or monochrome screen on a dual screen system.
(By default the color screen will be screen 0, and the monochrome
screen will be screen 1.)
.ift .in -10.8m
.ifn .in -15n
.br
\fB-19inch\fP	set color screen dpi for 19 inch monitor
.br
\fB-keyboard\fP \fIDefault|AT|XT|UNIX\fP \fI[unit#]\fP
.br
.ift .in +10.8m
.ifn .in +15n
selects type of keyboard to use
.ift .in -10.8m
.ifn .in -15n
.br
\fB-pointer\fP \fIDefault|Mouseman\fP \fI[unit#\fP \fI[baud\fP \fI[sample_rate]]]\fP
.br
.ift .in +10.8m
.ifn .in +15n
Selects type of pointer to use.  Optionally sets the baud
rate and sampling rate.  The baud rate may be set to 1200,
2400, 4800 and 9600.  The baud rate should be left at 1200
on RS2030 systems.  The sampling rate is a number greater
than or equal to zero.  Zero selects the fastest sampling
rate available.
.ift .in -10.8m
.ifn .in -15n
.sp
The server also takes all of the standard server options (See \fIXserver(1)\fP
for a complete list.)
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
Xserver(1), X(1), xinit(1), xdm(1)
