.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.de EX		\"Begin example
.ne 5
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
.nf
.in +.5i
..
.de EE
.fi
.in -.5i
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
..
.TH AUTO_BOX 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
auto_box \- display a rotating cube using PHIGS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B auto_box
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I auto_box
is a simple program that displays four views of a rotating cube.  It
initially displays the cube with filled polygons, then with hollow
polygons, or polylines.  Four views of the cube are presented in four
quadrants. each with a different rotation applied.  In the first and fourth
quadrants the back faces and front faces are respectively culled out,
demonstrating one of the PHIGS PLUS features.  auto_box uses only PHIGS
indexed colors.  Type auto_box to run the program.  It exits after all views
and rotations are completed once.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
PEX-SI User Guide 
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1991, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
