.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.TH XLSCLIENTS 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xlsclients - list client applications running on a display
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xlsclients"
[-display \fIdisplayname\fP] [-a] [-l] [-m maxcmdlen]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Xlsclients
is a utility for listing information about the client applications 
running on a display.  It may be used to generate scripts representing
a snapshot of the the user's current session.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIdisplayname\fP
This option specifies the X server to contact.
.TP 8
.B \-a
This option indicates that clients on all screens should be listed.  By 
default, only those clients on the default screen are listed.
.TP 8
.B \-l
This option indicates that a long listing showing the window name, icon name,
and class hints in addition to the machine name and command string shown in
the default listing.
.TP 8
.B \-m \fImaxcmdlen\fP
This option specifies the maximum number of characters in a command to 
print out.  The default is 10000.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
To get the default host, display number, and screen.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), xwininfo(1), xprop(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1989, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Jim Fulton, MIT X Consortium
