.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ac.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 11:24:55 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH ac 8
.SH NAME
\*Lac\*O \- Outputs connect-session records
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*Lac\*O [\*L-dp\*O] [\*L-w \*Vfilename\*O] [\*Vuser(s)\*O ...]\*L
.sE
.SH "FLAGS"
.VL
.LI "\*L-d\*O"
Outputs the total connect time for each midnight-to-midnight period for which
a \*Lwtmp\*O file exists. When \*Vuser(s)\*O is specified, this flag limits
the output to the login names specified by any \*Vuser(s)\*O parameter(s).
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Outputs the connect time total by individual login name of the user
specified with the\*L -p\*O flag and the \*Vuser(s)\*O parameter.
Omission of this flag only permits a total for the
midnight-to-midnight time period for all logged in users to be
produced.
.LI "\*L-w  \*Vfilename\*O" 
Specifies a \*Lwtmp\*O file other than the \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O file.
The \*Lwtmp\*O file you access for data may have been created
automatically by some shell script administration command; for example,
\*Lrunacct\*O, or manually by the system administrator when the
original \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O file becomes too large.
.LE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
The \*Lac\*O command prints to the default output device the total
connect time in hours to the nearest hundreth for all users, or the
connect time for any user(s) specified with the \*L-p\*O flag. It also
prints the names of users specified by the \*Vuser(s)\*O parameter who have
logged in during the life of the current \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O file.
.PP 
Connect-time records are written by the \*Linit\*O and the \*Llogin\*O
programs and are collected in the \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O file, when such
a file exists. When a \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O file does not exist, no
connect-time accounting records are written; consequently, when
connect-time records are wanted, the system administrator should
create a \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O file that has an initial record length of
\*L0\*O (zero). Records in \*Lwtmp\*O files (there may be more than one
such file) should be processed periodically to keep the files from
becoming too large.
.PP 
When you use the \*Lrunacct\*O command in a shell script, additional
\*Lwtmp\*O files can be automatically created whenever the current
\*Lwtmp\*O file becomes too large. You can output the contents of any of
these other files when you specify the \*L-w\*O flag and the desired
\*Lwtmp\*O \*Vfilename\*O.
.PP 
The \*Lac\*O command is run independently with respect to any
accounting shell procedure created or run by any of the \*Lacct/*\*O
shell procedures or \*Lrunacct\*O commands.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.AL
.LI
To obtain an output of the total connect time for all users who have logged
in during the life of the current \*Lwtmp\*O data file, enter:
.iS
/usr/sbin/ac
.iE
.LI
To obtain an output of the total connect time for \*Lgrossman\*O and
\*Lmcwhinney\*O as recorded in the default \*Lwtmp\*O data file, enter:
.iS
/usr/sbin/ac  grossman  mcwhinney
.iE
.LI
To obtain an output of the connect time subtotals for \*Lgrossman\*O and
\*Lmcwhinney\*O as recorded in the default \*Lwtmp\*O data file, enter:
.iS
/usr/sbin/ac -p  grossman  mcwhinney
.iE
.LE 
.SH "FILES"
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/ac\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O"
The active data file for the collection of connect-time records
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands:  \*Linit\*O(8), \*Llogin\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
