.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: acctprc.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 18:33:55 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
...\" actprc1.man
...\" nm_31.07.90
...\" hah_17.07.90
.TH acctprc 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lacctprc1\*O, \*Lacctprc2\*O, \*Laccton\*O - Perform process accounting procedures
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lacctprc1\*O [\*VInFile\*O]
.PP
\*Lacctprc2\*O
.PP
\*Laccton\*O [\*VOutFile\*O]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "acctprc"
.iX "acctprc1"
.iX "acctprc2"
.iX "accton"
.iX "process accounting"
.iX "process accounting procedures"
The three \*Lacctprc\*O commands, \*Lacctprc1\*O, \*Lacctprc2\*O,
and \*Laccton\*O, are used in the \*Lrunacct\*O shell procedure to
produce process-accounting reports.
.SS "\*Lacctprc1 [\*VInFile\*O]"
The \*Lacctprc1\*O command is used to read records from standard input
that are in a format defined by the \*Lacct\*O structure in the
\*L/usr/include/sys/acct.h\*O header file.  This process adds the
login names that correspond to user IDs, and then writes corresponding
ASCII records to standard output.  For each process, the record format
includes the following 7 unheaded columns:
.iX "runacct"
.iX "login names"
.iX "file" "acct.h"
.iX "format" "acct"
.iX "records" "acct"
.VL
.LI "\*LUser ID\*O"
The user ID column includes both traditional and assigned user
identification numbers listed in the \*L/etc/passwd\*O file.
.LI "\*LLogin name\*O"
The login name is the one used for the user ID in the \*L/etc/passwd\*O file.
.LI "\*LPrime time CPU time\*O"
The number of seconds the process consumed when
executed during prime-time hours. Prime and nonprime-time hours are
defined in the \*L/usr/sbin/acct/holidays\*O file.
.LI "\*LNonprime-time CPU time\*O"
The number of seconds the process consumed when
executed during nonprime-time hours.
.LI "\*LCharacters\*O"
Total number of characters transferred.
.LI "\*LBlocks\*O"
Total number of blocks read and written.
.LI "\*LMemory\*O"
Mean memory size (in kilobyte units).
.LE
.PP
When specified, \*VInFile\*O contains a list of login sessions in a
format defined by the \*Lutmp\*O structure in the
\*L/usr/include/utmp.h\*O header file. The login session records are
sorted according to user ID and login name. When \*VInFile\*O is not
specified, \*Lacctprc1\*O gets login names from password file
\*L/etc/passwd\*O. The information in \*VInFile\*O is used to
distinguish different login names that share the same user ID.
.iX "user" "ID"
.iX "passwd"
.iX "file" "passwd"
.iX "file" "utmp"
.iX "utmp"
.SS "\*Lacctprc2\*O"
The \*Lacctprc2\*O command reads, from standard input, the records written
by \*Lacctprc1\*O, summarizes them according to user ID and name, and writes
sorted summaries to standard output as total accounting records in the
\*Ltacct\*O format (see the \*Lacctmerg\*O command).
.iX "file" "acctmerg"
.iX "acctmerg"
.SS "\*Laccton [\*VOutFile\*O]"
When no parameters are specified with the \*Laccton\*O command,
account processing is turned off. When you specify an existing \*VOutFile\*O
file, process accounting is turned on, and the kernel adds records
to that file. You must specify an \*VOutfile\*O to start process
accounting. Many shell script procedures expect the file name
\*L/var/adm/pacct\*O, the standard process accounting file.
.iX "kernel"
.iX "user name"
.iX "login" "name"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To add a user name to each process-accounting record in a binary file
and then write these modified binary-file records to an ASCII file named
\*Lout.file\*O, enter the following line to an accounting shell script:
.iS
/usr/sbin/acct/acctprc1  <  /var/adm/pacct  >out.file
.iE
A user name is added to each record. The raw data in the \*Lpacct\*O file
is converted to ASCII and added to file \*Lout.file\*O.
.LI
To produce a total binary accounting record of the ASCII
output file \*Lout.file\*O produced in example 1, enter the following
line to an accounting shell script:
.iX "record" "total accounting"
.iX "record" "binary"
.iX "binary record"
.iS
/usr/sbin/acct/acctprc2 < out.file > /var/adm/acct/nite/daytacct
.iE
The resulting binary total accounting file, written in the \*Lacct\*O
format, contains records sorted by user ID. This sorted user ID file,
is usually merged with other total accounting records when an
\*Lacctmerg\*O command is processed to produce a daily summary
accounting record called \*L/var/adm/acct/sum/daytacct\*O.
.iX "record" "daily accounting"
.iX "daily accounting record"
.iX "file" "tacct"
.iX "tacct"
.LI
To turn on process accounting, enter:
.iS
/usr/sbin/acct/accton /var/adm/pacct
.iE
.iX "file" "daily summary"
.iX "daily summary accounting"
.iX "accounting" "daily summary file"
.LI
To turn off process accounting, enter:
.iS
/usr/sbin/acct/accton
.iE
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/acct/acctprc1\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/acct/acctprc2\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/acct/accton\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lacct\*O(8), \*Lacctcms\*O(8), \*Lacctmerg\*O(8), \*Lrunacct\*O(8)
.PP
Functions: \*Lacct\*O(2)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
