.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: acct.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 18:17:29 $
.\" 
.\"
.\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
.\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail 
.\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
.\"
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
...\"acct1.man
...\" nm_06.08.90
...\" hah_13.07.90
.TH acct 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lacct\*O, \*Lchargefee\*O, \*Lckpacct\*O, \*Ldodisk\*O, \*Llastlogin\*O, \*Lmonacct\*O, \*Lnulladm\*O, \*Lprctmp\*O, \*Lprdaily\*O, \*Lprtacct\*O, \*Lremove\*O, \*Lshutacct\*O, \*Lstartup\*O, \*Lturnacct\*O - Provides accounting commands for shell scripts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lchargefee\*O \*VUser\*O \*VNumber
.PP
\*Lckpacct\*O [\*VBlockSize\*O]
.PP
\*Ldodisk\*O [\*L-o\*O] [\*VFile ....\*O]
.PP
\*Llastlogin
.PP
\*Lmonacct\*O [\*VNumber\*O]
.PP
\*Lnulladm\*O [\*VFile ....\*O]
.PP
\*Lprctmp \*VFile ....
.PP
\*Lprdaily\*O [[\*L-l\*O] [\*Vmmdd\*O]] | [\*L-c\*O]
.PP
\*Lprtacct\*O [\*L-f\*V Specification\*O] [\*L-v\*O] \*VFile\*O [\*V'Heading'\*O]
.PP
\*Lremove
.PP
\*Lshutacct \*O[\*V'Reason'\*O]
.PP
\*Lstartup
.PP
\*Lturnacct \*Von\*O | \*Voff\*O | \*Vswitch
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "acct"
.iX "accounting" "automatic"
.iX "accounting" "commands"
.iX "accounting" "daily"
.iX "accounting" "disk"
.iX "accounting" "files, creating"
.iX "accounting" "files, printing"
.iX "accounting" "files, removing"
.iX "accounting" "initialization of"
.iX "accounting" "monthly"
.iX "accounting" "shell scripts"
.iX "accounting" "shutoff"
.iX "accounting" "startup"
.iX "accounting" "turnoff" "reason"
.iX "automatic" "accounting"
.iX "automatic" "accounting, turnoff"
.iX "chargefee"
.iX "ckpacct"
.iX "commands" "accounting"
.iX "creating accounting files"
.iX "daily accounting"
.iX "deleting files" "accounting"
.iX "disk" "accounting"
.iX "fees" "charging users"
.iX "file" "pacct length"
.iX "files" "accounting"
.iX "files" "creating" "pacct"
.iX "initialization" "accounting"
.iX "lastlogin"
.iX "login"
.iX "logout"
.iX "monacct"
.iX "monthly accounting"
.iX "nulladm"
.iX "pacct" "creating new files"
.iX "pacct" "files"
.iX "prctmp"
.iX "printing accounting files"
.iX "procedures" "shell"
.iX "prtacct"
.iX "removing accounting files"
.iX "shell scripts" "accounting"
.iX "shell" "procedure"
.iX "shutacct"
.iX "shutoff" "accounting"
.iX "startup"
.iX "switch" "turnacct"
.iX "turnacct"
.iX "turnacct" "switch"
.iX "turnoff" "accounting"
.iX "turnoff" "automatic accounting"
.iX "users" "fees"
There are 13 commands in the \*L/usr/sbin/acct/*\*O group that, along with other
accounting commands, permit you to obtain a wide range of system
accounting records and files. When used in shell scripts, many of the
\*Lacct/*\*O commands permit you to produce daily accounting records
and files when called by the \*Lrunacct\*O command (a command outside
of the \*Lacct/*\*O group). Some of the \*Lacct/*\*O commands are called
when system activity is interrupted and must be restarted or when active
accounting files become too large; still other \*Lacct/*\*O commands may be
used by a system administrator to perform occasional accounting procedures.
.PP
.iX "commands" "accounting"
.iX "accounting" "commands"
.iX "records" "daily accounting"
.iX "accounting" "daily records"
.iX "directory" "accounting"
.iX "accounting" "directory"
.iX "file" "crontabs" "adm"
.iX "crontabs" "file"
Most often, periodic accounting files are obtained by \*Lacct/*\*O
commands written to a \*Lcrontabs\*O file and which are processed by
the \*Lcron\*O daemon. These periodic accounting files consist of a
collection of records that are produced at the end of any process and
on a daily and monthly periodic basis.
.PP
You may specify a prime-time period for any 24-hour weekday. The
prime time period is those contiguous hours of a weekday for which
premium fees might be charged for resource use. Nonprime time hours
are those contiguous hours that are not defined as prime time.
Non-prime time also includes weekends and any holidays listed in the
file \*L/usr/sbin/acct/holidays\*O.
.PP
Recommended accounting set-up procedures include entries in the
\*L/usr/spool/cron/crontabs/adm\*O file to run two \*Lacct/*\*O
commands that are usually processed on a daily basis during nonprime
time: 1) the \*Ldodisk\*O command, which invokes the generation of
disk-usage accounting files and 2) the \*Lckpacct\*O command, which is
used to check the size of the \*L/var/adm/pacct\*O process accounting
files.  Another \*Lcrontabs\*O accounting command is \*Lmonacct\*O,
which is used to produce monthly summary accounting files in the
\*L/var/adm/acct/fiscal\*O accounting subdirectory from the daily
accounting files. The following 13 commands may be
used in shell scripts.
.VL
.LI "\*Lchargefee \*VUser\*O \*VNumber\*O"
The \*Lchargefee\*O command is used by the system administrator to
charge the number of units specified by the \*VNumber\*O parameter to
the login name specified by the \*VUser\*O parameter. The
\*VNumber\*O value may be an integer or a decimal value. The
\*Lchargefee\*O command writes a record to the \*L/var/adm/fee\*O
file. This information is then merged with other accounting records
with the \*Lacctmerg\*O command to create a daily \*L/var/adm/fee\*O
report.
.IP
The \*Lchargefee\*O command uses the \*Lprintpw\*O command to get the
list of all users stored in the password database.
.LI "\*Lckpacct\*O [\*VBlockSize\*O]"
The \*Lckpacct\*O command is used to check the size of the active
process accounting file, \*L/var/adm/pacct\*O. Normally, the
\*Lcron\*O daemon processes this command from the \*Lcrontabs\*O file.
When the size of the active data files exceeds the number of blocks
specified by the \*VBlockSize\*O parameter, the \*Lckpacct\*O command
is used to invoke the \*Lturnacct\*O \*Lswitch\*O command to turn off
process accounting. The default value for the \*VBlockSize\*O
parameter is 500.
.iX "cron" "daemon"
.iX "cron" "crontabs file"
.iX "file" "crontabs"
.IP
When the number of free disk blocks in the \*Lvar\*O file system falls
below 500, the \*Lckpacct\*O command is used to inhibit process
accounting by invoking the \*Lturnacct \*Voff\*O command.  When at least
500 free disk blocks are again available, account processing is
reactivated. This feature is sensitive to how frequently \*Lckpacct\*O
is run.
.IP
When the environment variable \*LMAILCOM\*O is set to \*Lmail root adm\*O, a
mail message is sent to the super-user (root) and to \*Ladm\*O in case of an
error.
.LI "\*Ldodisk \*O [\*L-o\*O] [\*VFile ....\*O]"
The \*Ldodisk\*O command initiates disk-usage accounting by calling
the \*Ldiskusg\*O command and the \*Lacctdisk\*O command.
.IP
When you specify the \*L-o\*O flag with the \*Ldodisk\*O command, a
more thorough but slower version of disk accounting by login
directory is initiated with the \*Lacctdusg\*O command. Normally, the
\*Lcron\*O \pdaemon
runs the \*Ldodisk\*O command. The following flag
may be used with the \*Ldodisk\*O command:
.VL
.LI "\*L-o\*O"
Calls the \*Lacctdusg\*O command instead of the \*Ldiskusg\*O
command to initiate disk accounting by login directory.
.LE
.IP
By default, the \*Ldodisk\*O command does disk accounting on
special files recorded in the \*L /etc/fstab\*O file. But when you
specify file names with the \*VFile\*O parameter, disk accounting is
done on only those files.
.IP
When you do not specify the \*L-o \*Oflag, the \*VFile\*O
parameter should specify special filenames of mountable file
systems. When you specify both \*L-o\*O and one or more \*VFile(s)\*O,
\*VFile(s)\*O should specify  mount points of mounted file systems.
.LI "\*Llastlogin\*O"
The \*Llastlogin\*O command updates the \*L
/var/adm/acct/sum/loginlog\*O file to show the last date each user
logged in. Normally, the \*Lrunacct\*O procedure, running under the
\*Lcron\*O daemon, calls this command and adds the information to the
daily report; however, the \*Llastlogin\*O command can also be entered
by the system administrator. The \*Llastlogin\*O commands uses the
\*Lprintpw\*O command to get a list of all users whose name and user ID
are stored in the password database file.
.LI "\*Lmonacct\*O [\*VNumber\*O]"
The \*Lmonacct\*O command collects daily or other periodic accounting
records into summary files in the \*L/var/adm/acct/fiscal\*O
subdirectory. After monthly summary files are produced, \*Lmonacct\*O
removes the old accounting files from the \*L/var/adm/acct/sum\*O
subdirectory and replaces them with the newly created summary files.
The \*Lcron\*O daemon should run this command once each month on the
first day of the following month or some other specified day after all the
dailys have been produced. (The \*Lmonacct\*O example shows how to
enter this command for the \*Lcron\*O daemon.)
.IP
The \*VNumber\*O parameter is a numerical value in the range 1 < \*Vn\*O <
12 (where \*Vn\*O is the month) that indicates the month for which
daily files are processed. The default value used for the
\*VNumber\*O parameter is the current month. The \*Lmonacct\*O command
stores the newly created summary files in the
\*L/var/adm/acct/fiscal\*O subdirectory and restarts new summary files
in \*L/var/adm/acct/sum\*O, the cumulative summaries to which daily
record summaries are appended.
.LI "\*Lnulladm \*O [\*VFile ....\*O]"
The \*Lnulladm\*O command creates the file specified in the \*VFile
\*Oparameter, gives read (\*Lr\*O) and write (\*Lw\*O) permissions
to the file owner and group, read (\*Lr\*O) permission to other
users, and ensures that the file owner and group is \*Ladm\*O.
Various accounting shell procedures invoke the\*L nulladm \*Ocommand.
The system administrator uses this command to set up active data
files, such as the \*L/var/adm/wtmp \*Ofile.
.LI "\*Lprctmp \*VFile ....\*O"
The system administrator may use the \*Lprctmp\*O command to output
the session record file specified by \*VFile\*O and created by the
\*Lacctcon1\*O command
(this is normally the \*L/var/adm/acct/nite/ctmp\*O file).
.LI "\*Lprdaily\*O [[\*L-l\*O] [\*Vmmdd\*O]] | [\*L-c\*O]"
The \*Lprdaily\*O command is invoked from the \*Lrunacct\*O shell
procedure to format an ASCII file of the accounting data of the
previous day. The records making up this file are located in the
\*L/var/adm/acct/sum/rprt\*Vmmdd\*O files, where \*Vmmdd\*O is the
month and day for which the file is produced. Use the \*Vmmdd\*O
parameter to specify a date other than the current day. The following flags
may be used with the \*Lprdaily\*O command:
.VL
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Reports exceptional resource usage by command. May be used only on
accounting records for the current day.
.LI "\*L-l\*O [\*Vmmdd\*O]"
Reports exceptional usage by login ID for the specified date.
.LE
.LI "\*Lprtacct\*O [\*L-f \*VSpecification\*O] [\*L-v\*O] \*VFile\*O [\*V'Heading'\*O]"
The \*Lprtacct\*O command formats and displays any total accounting
file specified by the \*VFile\*O parameter; records for these files
are defined by a type \*Ltacct\*O structure in the \*Ltacct.h\*O
include file. You can enter the \*Lprtacct\*O command to output any
\*Ltacct\*O file to the default output device. For example, you may
output a daily report keyed to connect time, to process time, to
disk usage, and to printer usage. To specify a title for the report,
specify a name for the \*VHeading\*O parameter with enclosed single or
double quotes. The following flags
may be used with the \*Lprtacct\*O command:
.VL
.LI "\*L-f \*VSpecification\*O"
Selects type \*Ltacct\*O structure members to be output, using the
structure-member selection mechanism specified for the \*Lacctmerg\*O
command.
.LI "\*L-v\*O"
Produces verbose output in which more precise notation is used for
floating-point numbers.
.LI "\*VHeading\*O"
Specifies a heading for report members.
.LE
.IP
The type \*Ltacct\*O structure
defines a total accounting record format, parts of which are used by
various accounting commands. Members of the type \*Ltacct\*O structure
whose data types are specified as an array of two \*Vdouble\*O elements
have both prime-time and nonprime values. The type \*Ltacct\*O structure
has the following members.
.VL
.LI "\*Luid_t ta_uid\*O"
User ID.
.LI "\*Lchar ta_name\*O[NSZ]"
A field for the login name with the same number of characters \*LNSZ\*O as the
\*Vut_user\*O member of the \*Lutmp\*O \%structure.
.LI "\*Ldouble ta_cpu\*O[2]"
Cumulative CPU time in minutes.
.LI "\*Ldouble ta_kcore\*O[2]"
Cumulative k-core time in minutes.
.LI "\*Ldouble ta_io\*O[2]"
Cumulative number of characters transferred in blocks of 512 bytes.
.LI "\*Ldouble ta_rw\*O[2]"
Cumulative number of blocks read and written.
.LI "\*Ldouble ta_con\*O[2]"
Cumulative connect time in minutes.
.LI "\*Ldouble ta_du\*O"
Cumulative disk-usage time in minutes.
.LI "\*Llong ta_qsys\*O"
Queueing system (printer) fee in number of pages.
.LI "\*Ldouble ta_fee\*O"
Special services fee expressed in units.
.LI "\*Llong ta_pc\*O"
A count of the number of processes.
.LI "\*Lunsigned short ta_sc\*O"
A count of the number of login sessions.
.LI "\*Lunsigned short ta_dc\*O"
A count of the number of disk samples.
.LE
.LI "\*Lremove\*O"
The \*Lremove\*O command deletes all\*L /var/adm/acct/sum/wtmp*\*O,
\*L/var/adm/acct/sum/pacct*\*O, and \*L/var/adm/acct/nite/lock*\*O
files as part of the daily cleanup procedure called by the \*Lrunacct\*O
command.
.LI "\*Lshutacct \*O [\*V'Reason'\*O]"
The \*Lshutacct\*O command turns process accounting off and
adds a '\*VReason\*O' record to the \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O file. This
command is usually invoked during a system shutdown.
.LI "\*Lstartup\*O"
The \*Lstartup\*O command turns on the accounting functions and
adds a reason record to the \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O file.  Usually
it is called from the \*L/etc/rc\*O command file, when the
system is started up. See the start-up example for the command line to
add to the \*L/etc/rc\*O file when you do the set-up procedures.
.LI "\*Lturnacct \*Von\*O | \*Voff\*O | \*Vswitch\*O"
The \*Lturnacct\*O command provides an interface to the \*Laccton\*O
command to turn process accounting on or off, or to create a new
\%\*L/var/adm/pacct\*Vn\*O process accounting file. This command can
only be executed by a superuser or by the \*Ladm\*O login name. Only
one of the arguments \*Von\*O, \*Voff\*O, or \*Vswitch\*O may be used:
.VL
.LI "\*Von\*O"
Turns process accounting on.
.LI "\*Voff\*O"
Turns process accounting off.
.LI "\*Vswitch\*O"
The \*Vswitch\*O flag is used to create a new \%\*L/var/adm/pacct\*Vn\*O
file when the current \%\*L/var/adm/pacct\*Vn\*O file is too large. The
suffix \*Vn\*O (where \*Vn\*O is a positive integer) indicates the
previous active \*L/var/adm/pacct\*Vn\*O file.
After the currently active \*L/var/adm/pacct\*Vn\*O file is renamed,
a new active \*L/var/adm/pacct\*O file is created and process accounting is
restarted.
.LE
.IP
This command is usually called by the \*Lckpacct\*O command,
running under the \*Lcron\*O daemon, to keep the active \*Lpacct\*O
data file\*L \*Odown to a manageable size.
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
You should not share accounting files among nodes in a distributed
environment.  Each node should have its own copy of the various
accounting files.
.PP
When you are also using the \*Lsa\*O command, \*Lsa\*O does not know
whether information is stored in the incremental \*L/var/adm/pacct\*Vn\*O
file or in any other \%\*L/var/adm/pacct\*Vn\*O summary file by the
\*Lacct/*\*O commands (see the \*Lturnacct\*O command).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To charge \*Lsmith\*O for \*L10\*O units of work on a
financial report, enter:
.iS
/usr/sbin/acct/chargefee smith 10
.iE
A record is created in the \*L/var/adm/fee\*O file, which the
\*Lacctmerg\*O command is subsequently instructed to merge with
records in other accounting files to produce the daily report.
.LI
To check the size of a \*L/var/adm/pacct\*Vn\*O summary accounting file,
add the following instruction to the \%\*L/usr/spool/cron/crontabs/adm\*O
shell script:
.iS
5 * * * * /usr/sbin/acct/ckpacct
.iE
This example shows another instruction that the \*Lcron\*O daemon
reads and acts upon when it is included in the
\*L/usr/spool/cron/crontabs/adm\*O shell script file. The
\*Lckpacct\*O command is set to run at 5 minutes past every hour
(\*L5 *\*O) every day. This command is only one of many accounting instructions
normally passed to the \*Lcron \*Odaemon from the
\*L/usr/spool/cron/crontabs/adm\*O shell script file. See the
\*ESystem Administration\*O
for details.
.LI
To initiate disk-usage accounting, add the following to the
\*L/usr/spool/cron/crontabs/adm\*O shell script file:
.iS
0 2 * * 4 /usr/sbin/acct/dodisk
.iE
.IP
This example illustrates a shell script instruction that the
\*Lcron\*O daemon reads and then processes. The \*Ldodisk\*O command
runs at 2 AM (\*L0 2\*O) each Thursday (\*L4\*O). This command is one
of many accounting instructions normally passed to the \*Lcron\*O daemon
from a \*L/usr/spool/cron/crontabs/adm\*O shell script file. See
the
\*ESystem Administration\*O
for details.
.LI
To produce a monthly accounting report, at the beginning of each month,
add the following instruction to the \*L/usr/spool/cron/crontabs/adm\*O
file:
.iS
15 5 1 * * /usr/sbin/acct/monacct
.iE
.IP
This example is an instruction that the \*Lcron\*O daemon reads and
then processes. The \*Lmonacct\*O command runs at 5:15 (\*L15 5\*O) the
first day of each month (\*L1\*O). This command is only one of many
accounting instructions normally passed to the \*Lcron\*O daemon from
the \*L/usr/spool/cron/crontabs/adm\*O shell script file.  See
the
\*ESystem Administration\*O
for details.
.LI
To turn on the accounting functions when the system
is started up, add the following to the \*L/etc/rc\*O file:
.iS
/bin/su\ -\ adm\ -c\ /usr/sbin/acct/startup
.iE
.IP
The startup shell procedure records the time and cleans up the
records produced the previous day.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/acct/*\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LI "\*L/usr/include/sys/acct.h\*O, \*L/usr/include/utmp.h\*O"
Header files defining structures used to organize accounting information.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/fee\*O"
Accumulates the fees charged to each login name.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/pacct\*O"
Current database file for process accounting information.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/pacct\*Vn\*O"
Another process accounting database file, which is produced when the
\*L/var/adm/pacct\*O file gets too large.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O"
Login/logout database file.
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/acct/ptelus.awk\*O"
Shell procedure that calculates limits for exceptional usage by
the login ID.
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/acct/ptecms.awk\*O"
Shell procedure that calculates limits of exceptional usage by
command name.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/acct/nite\*O"
Working directory that contains daily accounting database files.
.LI "\*L/etc/fstab\*O"
Contains information about file systems.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/acct/sum\*O"
Working subdirectory that contains accounting summary database files.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lacctcms\*O(8), \*Lacctcom\*O(8), \*Lacctcon\*O(8), \*Lacctmerg\*O(8), \*Lacctprc\*O(8), \*Lfwtmp\*O(8), \*Lprintpw\*O(8), \*Lrunacct\*O(8)
.PP
Daemons:  \*Lcron\*O(8)
.PP
Functions:  \*Lacct\*O(2)
.PP
\*ESystem Administration\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
