.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: acctcon.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/12/23 18:18:43 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" actcon1.man
.\" nm_31.07.90
.\" hah_16.07.90
.TH acctcon 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lacctcon1\*O, \*Lacctcon2\*O - Displays connect-time accounting summaries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lacctcon1\*O [\*L\-l \*Vfile\*O] [\*L\-o\*O \*Vfile\*O] [\*L\-p\*O] [\*L\-t\*O]
.nL
\*Lacctcon2\*O
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.iX "acctcon"
.iX "command" "acctcon1"
.iX "command" "acctcon2"
.iX "acctcon1"
.iX "acctcon2"
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-l \*O\*Vfile\*O"
Writes line-usage format from the input file (usually
\*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O) to \*Vfile\*O for the accounting period during
which the file \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O is active.
The following example shows the ASCII line-usage heading format:
.nL
.oS
.in -.25i
TOTAL DURATION: 57 MINUTES
LINE           MINUTES    PERCENT    # SESS    # ON    # OFF
pty/ttyp4         37           64        3      3       7
console           26           45        2      2       4
pty/ttyp5          7           11        1      1       3
pty/ttyp6          0            0        0      0       2
TOTALS            69            -        6      6      16
.in
.oE
.SP
.IP
TOTAL DURATION specifies the total number of minutes used for connect
sessions during the accounting period during which the
\*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O file is active.
The columns specify the line name, the number of session minutes used,
the percentage of total elapsed time used for the sessions, the number
of sessions charged, the number of logins, and the number of logouts.
The last line in the line-usage file totals the entries for each column.
.IP
The line-usage format helps to track line usage and identify bad
lines.
All hangups, terminations of the \*Llogin\*O command, and terminations
of the login shell cause the system to write logout records, so that
the number of logouts is often greater than the number of sessions.
.LI "\*L\-o \*O\*Vfile\*O"
Writes an overall-record format to \*Vfile\*O from the input file
(usually \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O) for the accounting period during which
the \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O file is active.
The following example shows the overall-record format:
.nL
.oS
.in -.25i
from \*Vmon day date hh:mm:ss yyyy tz\*C
to   \*Vmon day date hh:mm:ss yyyy tz\*C
2    date changes  \*ONumber of times the date was changed.\*C
21   acctg off     \*ONumber of times accounting functions\*C
                   \*Owere turned off.\*C
25   run-level S   \*ONumber of times accounting functions\*C
                   \*Oran in single-user mode.\*C
108  system boot   \*ONumber of times the system was rebooted.\*C
21   acctg on      \*ONumber of times accounting functions\*C
                   \*Owere turned on.\*C
21   acctcon1      \*ONumber of times the \*Lacctcon1\*O command\*C
                   \*Owas issued.
.in
.oE
.nL
.iX "connect session" "line usage records"
.iX "connect session" "overall record"
.iX "record" "overall" "connect session"
.iX "connect session" "date change"
.iX "date" "connect session"
.iX "accounting" "turnon"
.iX "accounting" "turnoff"
.iX "turnoff" "accounting"
.iX "turnon" "accounting"
.iX "mode" "single user"
.iX "single user mode"
.iX "system" "reboot"
.iX "reboot" "system"
.IP
The first lines specify the date and time stamp, including time zone,
of the accounting period start time and end time.
.iX "default" "connect session date and timestamp"
.iX "date and timestamp" "connect session" "default"
.iX "time" "time zone"
.iX "time zone"
.LI "\*L\-p\*O"
Writes the input file (usually \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O) to the default
output device.
For example:
.nL
.oS
.in -.25i
pty/ttyp1  hoff   616883748  Jul  19  16:35:48  1990  EST
pty/ttyp1  hoff   616883825  Jul  19  16:37:05  1990  EST
pty/ttyp1  LOGIN  616883833  Jul  19  16:37:13  1990  EST
pty/ttyp1  tom    616883837  Jul  19  16:37:17  1990  EST
.in
.oE
.IP
The output columnar format lists the line reference name, the login
name, the time in seconds since January 1, 1970, 0 hours, 0 minutes, 0
seconds, the date, the 24-hour clock time, the year and the time zone.
.LI "\*L\-t\*O"
Uses the last time found in the input file as the ending time for any
current processes.
This time, rather than current time, is necessary to have reasonable
and repeatable values for noncurrent files.
The output format is the same as the default output format.
.IP
The \*Lacctcon1\*O command also maintains a list of ports on which
users are logged in.
When the \*Lacctcon1\*O command reaches the end of its input, a
session record is written for each port that still appears to be
active.
The \*Lacctcon1\*O command assumes that the input source is the
current file and uses current time as the ending time for each session
still in progress.
.LE
.iX "connect session" "active ports"
.iX "ports" "connect session"
.iX "tty"
.iX "terminal" "tty reference"
.iX "connect session" "start time"
.iX "start time" "connect session"
.iX "connect session" "end time"
.iX "end time" "connect session"
.iX "file" "reboots"
.iX "file" "logacct"
.iX "file" "line use"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lacctcon1\*O and \*Lacctcon2\*O commands are described
separately.
.SS "\*Lacctcon1\*O"
The \*Lacctcon1\*O command is invoked by the \*Lrunacct\*O shell
procedure to write a sequence of login and logout records.
One record for each connect session is written to the specified
destination as a sequence of login session records.
The \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O source file should be directed as input to the
command.
.IP
The following example shows the default ASCII columnar output format:
.iX "runacct"
.iX "shell procedure" "runacct"
.iX "records" "connect session"
.iX "login" "records"
.iX "logout" "records"
.iX "records" "login"
.iX "records" "logout"
.iX "file" "wtmp"
.iX "connect session" "records"
.iX "wtmp"
.iX "connect session" "total accounting summaries"
.iX "accounting" "total connect session summaries"
.iX "records" "total connect session"
.oS
285212673  1192  hoff 85    0     616883748  Jul 19 16:35:48  1990 EST
285212673  1033  tom  10    0     616883837  Jul 19 16:37:17  1990 EST
285212673  0     root 1345  2852  616883855  Jul 19 16:37:35  1990 EST
285212673  1120  jim  0     62    616888058  Jul 19 17:47:38  1990 EST
.oE
.PP
The columns contain the following information:
.ML
.LI
Device address, expressed as a decimal equivalent of the
major/minor device address at which the connection was activated.
.LI
User ID assigned for the connect-session record.
.LI
Login name under which the session took place.
.LI
Total number of prime-time seconds for the connect session.
.LI
Total number of nonprime-time seconds for the connect session.
.LI
Seconds since the date 0 hours, 0 minutes 0 seconds, 1 January 1970.
.LI
Month, day of the month, connect-session starting time, year, and time zone.
.LE
.iX "address" "device"
.iX "device" "major and minor address"
.iX "connect session" "user ID"
.iX "user" "user ID" "connect sessions"
.iX "connect session" "prime time"
.iX "connect session" "nonprime time"
.iX "prime time" "connect session records"
.iX "nonprime time" "connect session records"
.iX "Epoch"
.PP
The order of date and time information is locale dependent.
The date and timestamps shown are for the default headings, but their
order may be changed using the \*LNLTIME\*O environment variable to
change the timestamp format.
.iX "date and timestamp" "connect session"
.iX "connect session" "date and timestamp"
.iX "time" "locale" "connect session"
.iX "time" "environment variable"
.iX "runacct"
.iX "connect session" "total accounting records"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Corrected typo per QAR 6104.
.iX "records" "connect session total accounting"
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.SS "\*Lacctcon2\*O"
The \*Lacctcon2\*O command is invoked by the \*Lrunacct\*O shell
procedure.
It converts a sequence of login session records produced by the
\*Lacctcon1\*O command into connect time total accounting records.
These records are often merged with other total accounting records
with the \*Lacctmerg\*O command to produce a daily report.
.iX "connect session" "daily report"
.iX "acctmerg"
.iX "daily report" "connect session"
.iX "line usage" "report"
.iX "report" "line use"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example converts login records to a default format login
session record report:
.iS
acctcon1 -t /var/adm/lineuse -o /var/adm/reboots \e
              < /var/adm/wtmp > /var/adm/logsess
.iE
The previous example generates three files.
The \*L/var/adm/logsess\*O file lists ending date and 24-hour
timestamp records that correspond with the last time that input was
obtained with the \*L\-t\*O flag.
For the accounting period covered by the \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O file, the
\*L/var/adm/lineuse\*O line-usage summary file is generated by the
\*L\-l\*O flag, and the \*L/var/adm/reboots\*O overall record file is
obtained with the \*L\-o\*O flag.
.PP
The following example converts a series of login session records in the
/\*Lvar/adm/logsess\*O file to a total accounting record in the
\*L/var/adm/logacct\*O binary file:
.iS
acctcon2 < /var/adm/logsess > /var/adm/logacct
.iE
.SH FILES
.VL 14m
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/acct/acctcon1\*O"
Specifies command path.
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/acct/acctcon2\*O"
Specifies command path.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O"
The active login/logout database file.
.LI "\*L/usr/include/sys/acct.h\*O, \*L/usr/include/utmp.h\*O"
Accounting header files that define formats for writing accounting files.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lacctmerg\*O(8), \*Lacct\*O(8), \*Lfwtmp\*O(8),
\*Linit\*O(8), \*Llogin\*O(1)
.PP
Functions: \*Lacct\*O(2)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
