.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: acctdisk.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 18:28:25 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
...\" actdsk1.man
...\" nm_31.07.90
...\" hah_17.07.90
.TH acctdisk 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lacctdisk\*O, \*Lacctdusg\*O - Perform disk-usage accounting
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lacctdisk\*O
.PP
\*Lacctdusg\*O [\*L-u\*O \*Vfile\*O] [\*L-p\*O \*Vfile\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lacctdisk\*O and \*Lacctdusg\*O commands are called
from the \*Ldodisk\*O shell procedure to do disk usage accounting.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L-p  \*Vfile\*O"
Searches \*Vfile\*O as the alternate file for login names and numbers,
instead of searching \*L/etc/passwd\*O.
.LI "\*L-u  \*Vfile\*O"
Writes records of filenames for which it does not charge into \*Vfile\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "acctdisk"
.iX "acctdusg"
.iX "dodisk"
.iX "command" "dodisk"
.iX "command" "acctdusg"
Normally the \*Lacctdisk\*O and \*Lacctdusg\*O commands are called
from the \*Ldodisk\*O shell procedure to do disk usage accounting. The
\*Ldodisk\*O shell procedure is invoked when the \*Lcron\*O daemon
executes commands in the
\%\*L/usr/spool/cron/crontabs\*O/[\*Vfilename\*O] file. In the usual
case, the output of the \*Ldiskusg\*O command is the redirected input
to the \*Lacctdisk\*O command. When a more thorough, but slower,
version of disk accounting is needed, specify the \*L-o\*O flag with
the \*Ldodisk\*O command. This is not normally done in the
\%\*L/usr/spool/cron/crontabs\*O/[\*Vfilename\*O] file.  When the
\*L-o\*O flag is used, the \*Lacctdusg\*O command replaces the
\*Ldiskusg\*O command.
.iX "daemon" "cron"
.iX "accounting" "disk usage"
.iX "disk" "usage accounting"
.iX "total accounting record" "disk usage"
.iX "accounting" "total disk usage"
.iX "accounting" "complete disk usage"
.SS "\*Lacctdisk\*O"
Normally, the \*Lacctdisk\*O command reads a temporary output file
produced by the \*Ldiskusg\*O or the\*L acctdusg\*O command from
standard input, converts each record into a total disk accounting
record, and writes it to standard output. These records are merged
with other accounting records with the \*Lacctmerg\*O command to
produce a daily accounting report.
.iX "command" "acctmerg"
.SS "\*Lacctdusg\*O"
The \*Lacctdusg\*O command is called when the \*L-o\*O flag is used
with the \*Ldodisk\*O command. This produces a more thorough, but
slower, version of disk accounting records. Otherwise, the
\*Ldodisk\*O shell procedure invokes the \*Ldiskusg\*O command.
.PP
The \*Lacctdusg\*O command reads a list of files from standard
input (usually piped from a \*Lfind / -print\*O command), computes
the number of disk blocks (including indirect blocks) allocated to
each file divided by the number of hard links then writes an individual
record for each user to standard output.
.iX "blocks" "disk usage"
.iX "disk" "blocks used"
.PP
Find the user who is charged for the file as follows:
.PP
Compare each file pathname with the login directories of the
users. The user who has the longest pathname component match is charged for
the file. Therefore, the relevant information for charging users is \*Lnot\*O
ownership of a file but the directory where it is stored.
.iX "login" "directory"
.iX "directory" "login"
.iX "file" "password"
.iX "names" "user login"
.iX "user" "login names"
.PP
The \*Lacctdusg\*O command searches the \*L/etc/passwd\*O file, or the
alternate password file specified with the \*L-p\*O flag, for login names,
numbers and login directories. Each output record has the following
format:
.oS
uid login #blocks
.oE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To start normal disk accounting procedures, add a line similar to
the following to the \*L/usr/spool/cron/crontabs\*O/[\*Vfilename\*O] file:
.iS
0 2 * * 4 /usr/sbin/acct/dodisk
.iE
The foregoing example is a typical, periodically invoked command that the
\*Lcron\*O daemon reads and executes. The period is expressed by a
six field entry having the format: \*Vmm hh daymon monyr wkday cmd\*O. For any field requiring digits, numbers are integers. These six fields have
the following significance:
.VL
.LI "\*LVariable\*O"
\*LPurpose\*O
.LI "\*Vmm\*O"
Time variable that has the value 0 through 59 expressing
minutes past the hour.
.LI "\*Vhh\*O"
Time variable for the hour of the day in 24-hour
clock notation.
.LI "\*Vdaymon\*O"
Time variable for the day of the month.
.LI "\*Vmonyr\*O"
Time variable for month of the year.
.LI "\*Vwkday\*O"
Time variable for  the day or days-of-the-week, where 0 is
Sunday and inclusive days are separated with a hyphen (\*L-\*O).
.LI "\*Vcmd\*O"
Command the \*Lcron\*O daemon must execute.
.LE
.IP
Whenever you write any of the time variables described in the
foregoing table, an unspecified value must be noted with an \*L*\*O
(asterisk) to define an empty field.
.IP
In the foregoing example, the \*Ldodisk\*O shell procedure runs at
02:00 hours (2) every Thursday (4). The \*Ldodisk\*O shell procedure
calls the \*Lacctdusg\*O command to redirect its input to a temporary file and
then calls the \*Lacctdisk\*O shell procedure to redirect disk usage
records from the temporary file as input to a
\%\*L/var/adm/acct/nite\*O/[\*Vfilename\*O] file as output. The file
stored in the \%\*L/var/adm/acct/nite\*O subdirectory is a permanent
binary record of disk usage for the specified period.
.LI
To initiate a slower, more thorough disk accounting procedure,
add a line similar to the following to the
\*L/usr/spool/cron/crontabs/[\*Vfilename\*O] file.
.iS
0 2 * * 0-4 /usr/sbin/acct/dodisk -o
.iE
The \*Ldodisk\*O shell procedure calls the \*Lacctdusg\*O command and
the \*Lacctdisk\*O command to write disk usage records to the\*L
/var/adm/acct/nite\*O/[\*Vfilename\*O]\ file just as in the previous
example. The \*Ldodisk\*O procedure runs at 2 a.m. every day (\*L0-6\*O)
including Sunday.
.iX "crontabs" "specifying time"
.iX "file" "crontabs time"
.iX "time" "contabs files"
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/acct/acctdisk\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/acct/acctdusg\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O"
User database file.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O"
The active login/logout database file.
.LI "\*L/usr/include/sys/acct.h\*O, \*L/usr/include/utmp.h\*O"
Accounting header files that define formats for writing accounting files.
.LE
.iX "database" "user"
.iX "user" "database file"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lacct\*O(8), \*Ldodisk\*O(8), \*Lacctmerg\*O(8), \*Ldiskusg\*O(8), \*Lrunacct\*O(8)
.PP
Daemons: \*Lcron\*O(8)
.PP
Functions: \*Lacct\*O(2)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
