.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: acctmerg.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 11:25:58 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" actmrg1.man
.\" nm_03.08.90
.\" hah_12.07.90
.TH acctmerg 8
.SH NAME
\*Lacctmerg \*O \- Merges total accounting files into an intermediary file or a daily accounting file
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lacctmerg\*O \*L-\*O[\*Lahipv\*O] [\*Vspecification\*O] \*L-\*O[\*Ltu\*O] [\*Vfile ....\*O]
.sE
.PP 
The \*Lacctmerg\*O command combines total accounting records in
\*Ltacct\*O binary or \*Ltacct\*O ASCII format.\*L
.SH "FLAGS"
.VL
.LI "\*L-a \*O[\*Vspecification\*O]"
Produces output as ASCII records.
.LI "\*L-h \*O[\*Vspecification\*O]"
Lists column headings. This flag implies \*L-a\*O
but is effective with the \*L-p\*O or \*L-v\*O flags.
.LI "\*L-i \*O[\*Vspecification\*O]"
Expects input files to have ASCII records that are converted
to binary output records.
.LI "\*L-p \*O[\*Vspecification\*O]"
Lists input but without processing.
.LI "\*L-t\*O"
Produces a single record that contains the totals of all input.
.LI "\*L-u\*O"
Summarizes by user ID rather than by user name. This is convenient when
a single user ID is allocated to more than one user name.
.LI "\*L-v \*O[\*Vspecification\*O]"
Produces output in ASCII, with more precise notation for floating-point
values.
.LE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \*Lacctmerg\*O command combines process, connect time, fee,
disk usage, and queuing (printer) total accounting records in
\*Ltacct\*O binary or \*Ltacct\*O ASCII format (see the \*Ltacct\*O
structure in the \*Lacct.h\*O file format for a description of this
total accounting format). The \*Lacctmerg\*O command writes the
results of record processing to standard output. The accounting file
produced by the \*Lacctmerg\*O command may have entries for as many as
18 columns. Column headings are printed only when you use the \*L-h\*O
flag. The following table lists the column headings by number, the
column heading by label, and the purpose of the entry:
.VL
.LI "1. \*CUID\*O"
User ID. This is the integer value of the user ID from the
\*L/etc/passwd\*O file.
.LI "2. \*CLOGNAME\*O"
User login name. This is the alpha user login name from the
\*L/etc/passwd\*O file.
.LI "3. \*CPRI_CPU\*O"
Prime-time CPU run time. This is the total time in seconds that prime-time
CPU run time was charged to the user during the active accounting
period.
.LI "4. \*CNPRI_CPU\*O"
Nonprime time CPU runtime. This is the total time in seconds that nonprime
CPU run time was charged to the named user.
.LI "5. \*CNPRI_MEM\*O"
Prime time memory K-core. This is a measure of memory usage
during prime time. This value expresses the amount of memory used
and the elapsed amount of prime time during which it was used
(K-core is the product of total CPU time in minutes
and mean size of memory used).
.LI "6. \*CNPRI_MEM\*O"
Nonprime time memory K-core. This is a measure of memory usage
during nonprime time.
.LI "7. \*CPRI_RD/WR\*O"
Prime-time read and write characters. This is the total number of
characters transferred during prime-time operation.
.LI "8. \*CNPRI_RD/WR\*O"
Nonprime-time read and write characters. This is the total number of
characters transferred during nonprime-time operation.
.LI "9. \*CPRI_BLKIO\*O"
Prime-time number of I/O blocks. This is the total number of I/O blocks
transferred during prime-time read and write operations. The number of
bytes in an I/O block is implementation dependent.
.LI "10. \*CNPRI_BLKIO\*O"
Nonprime time number of I/O blocks. This is the total number of I/O blocks
transferred during nonprime-time read and write operations.
.LI "11. \*CPRI_CONNECT\*O"
Prime-time connect duration. This is the total number of prime-time seconds
during which a connection existed.
.LI "12. \*CNPRI_CONNECT\*O"
Nonprime-time connect duration. This is the total number of nonprime-time
seconds during which a connection existed.
.LI "13. \*CDSK_BLOCKS\*O"
Disk blocks used. This is the total number of disk blocks used.
.LI "14. \*CPRINT\*O"
Number of pages printed. This is the total number of pages queued to any
printers in the system.
.LI "15. \*CFEES\*O"
Special fee charge units. This is the number of integer units to
charge for any special fee. This value is the one supplied when the
\%\*L/usr/sbin/acct/chargefee\*O command is processed during the
active accounting period.
.LI "16. \*CPROCESSES\*O"
Number of processes. This is the total number of processes spawned by the
user during the active accounting period.
.LI "17. \*CSESS\*O"
Number of logins. This is the total number of times the user logged in
during the active accounting period.
.LI "18. \*CDSAMPS\*O"
Number of disk accounting samples. This is the total number of times
during the active accounting period that the disk accounting command
was used to get the total number of disk blocks listed in the
\*CDSK_BLOCKS\*O column. When the value in the \*CDSK_BLOCKS\*O
column is divide by this number, the average number of disk blocks used
during the accounting period is obtained.
.LE
.PP 
Total accounting records are read from standard input and any
additional files (up to nine) you specify with the \*Vfile\*O
parameter.  File records are merged according to identical keys,
usually the user ID and user login name.  To optimize processing
performance, output is written in binary, unless the \*L-a\*O or
\*L-v\*O flag is used.
.PP 
Normally the \*Lacctmerg\*O command is called from the \*Lrunacct\*O shell
procedure, either to produce an intermediate file
\%(\*L/var/adm/acct/nite/daytacct\*O, for example) when one or more
source accounting files is full, or to merge intermediate files into a
cumulative total \%(\*L/var/adm/acct/sum/tacct\*O, is another example). The
cumulative total daily files are the source from which the \*Lmonacct\*O
command produces an ASCII monthly summary file, which is written to the
\*L/var/adm/acct/fiscal\*O subdirectory.
.PP 
Optional \*VSpecification\*O allows you to select input or output
column entries, as illustrated in Example 1. Field specifications are
a comma-separated string of field numbers. Filed numbers are
referenced in boldface type in the first column of the foregoing list
together with their respective column headings. When you specify field
numbers they should be listed in the order specified by the boldfaced
heading reference numbers.
.PP 
Inclusive field ranges may also be specified, with array sizes
properly taken into account except for the \*Vta_name\*O number of
characters. For example, \*L-h2-3,11,15-13,2\*O displays the
\*CLOGNAME\*O (\f32\*O), \*CPRI_CPU\*O (\f33\*O),
\*CPRI_CONNECT\*O time (\f311\*O), \*CFEES\*O (\f315\*O),
\*CPRINT\*O (\f314\*O), \*CDISK_BLOCKS\*O (\f313\*O), and again
\*CLOGNAME\*O (\f32\*O), in that order, with the described column
headings (\*L-h\*O). The default specification is to output all 18
columns (1-18 or 1-), which produces rather wide output records that
contain all the available accounting data.
.PP 
Queuing system, disk usage, or fee data can be converted into\*L 
tacct\*O records with the \*Lacctmerge\*O command, using the \*L-i \*Oflag
and the \*Vspecification\*O parameter.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.AL
.LI
To merge inclusive fields from an ASCII disk accounting file called
\*Ldacct\*O into an existing total accounting file named
\*Ltacct\*O as binary information, but with entries for fields 1, 2, 13,
and 18 only, enter the following line.
.iS
acctmerg  -i 1 -2,13,18  <dacct  |  acctmerg  tacct  >output
.iE
The \*Lacctmerg\*O command reads the columnar entries for 
\*CUID\*O (\f31\*O), \*CLOGNAME\*O (\f32\*O), \*CDSK_BLOCKS\*O (\f313\*O),
and \*CDSAMPS\*O (\f318\*O)
from the \*Ldacct\*O file as input,
merges this information as \*Ltacct\*O binary records, and writes the
result to standard output as ASCII.
.LI
To repair file \*Ljan2.rpt\*O in inclusive \*Ltacct\*O columnar format,
enter the following initial command, edit
the \*Ljan2.tmp\*O file, and then enter the last command:
.iS
acctmerg   -v  <jan2.rpt  >jan2.tmp
.iE
Edit \*Ljan2.tmp\*O as desired....
.iS
acctmerg  -i  >jan2.tmp  >jan2.rpt
.iE
.PP
The first command redirects the content of file \*Ljan2.rpt\*O to file
\*Ljan2.tmp\*O, with ASCII output and floating-point values.
After you edit file \*Ljan2.tmp\*O, the last command redirects file
\*Ljan2.tmp\*O as ASCII input to file \*Ljan2.rpt\*O as output, with output
records in binary.
.LE 
.SH "FILES"
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/acct/acctmerg\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LI "\*L/usr/include/sys/acct.h\*O, \*L/usr/include/utmp.h\*O"
Accounting header files that define formats for writing accounting files.
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/acct/holidays\*O"
This is where prime-time is set.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/acct/nite/daytacct\*O"
Intermediate daily total accounting file.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/acct/sum/tacct\*O"
Cumulative total accounting file.
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lacct\*O(8), \*Lacctcms\*O(8), \*Lacctcom\*O(8), \*Lacctcon\*O(8), \*Lacctdisk\*O(8), \*Lacctprc\*O(8), \*Lfwtmp\*O(8), \*Lrunacct\*O(8)
.PP 
Functions:  \*Lacct\*O(2)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
