.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: acctcms.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/07/29 13:16:32 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
...\"	 actcms1.man
...\"	 hah_16.07.90
...\"	 nm_31.07.90
...\"
.TH acctcms 8
.iX "acctcms command"
.iX "acct format"
.SH NAME
\*Lacctcms\*O - Produces command usage summaries from accounting records
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sS
\*Lacctcms\*O  [\*L\-acjnspot\*O] \*Vfile\*O \&...
.sE
.SH "FLAGS"
.VL
.LI "\*L\-a\*O"
Displays output in ASCII summary format rather than the default binary 
format. 
The \*Lacctcms\*O command sorts its output in descending order according
to total K-core minutes. The unit \*VK-core minutes\*O is 
the amount of storage used (in kilobytes) multiplied by the amount of 
time the buffer was in use. The hog factor is the total CPU time 
divided by the total real time. 
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
The ASCII summary output format has the following headings:
.ML
.LI
The COMMAND NAME column specifies the name of the command.
Because only object modules are
reported by the accounting system, the \*Lsh\*O
command entry specifies the entry for all shell processes,
regardless of their actual names.
.LI
The NUMBER CMDS column specifies the total number of command invocations
during the accounting period.
.LI
The TOTAL KCOREMIN column combines the amount of memory used and the
length of time used.  Memory is specified in kilobyte blocks, and time is
specified in minutes.
.LI
The TOTAL CPU-MIN column specifies
the total CPU time needed to process the command the number of
times specified in the NUMBER CMDS column.
.LI
The TOTAL REAL-MIN column
specifies the total number of real-time minutes needed to process
the command the number of times specified in the NUMBER CMDS column.
.LI
The MEAN SIZE-K column
specifies the average amount of memory in kilobytes used to process the
command the number of times specified in the NUMBER CMDS column.
.LI
The MEAN CPU-MIN column
specifies the average amount of CPU time that the command used each
time it was processed.  The mean CPU minutes are obtained by
dividing the total CPU minutes by the total number of commands.
.LI
The HOG FACTOR column specifies the CPU time needed to process the
command the number of times specified in the NUMBER CMDS column with
respect to the time required to process all commands.   This value
shows the ratio of system availability to system utilization.
.LI
The CHARS TRANSFD column
specifies the total number of characters that were read or written
when the command was processed the number of times specified  in
the NUMBER CMDS column.
.LI
The BLOCKS READ column specifies the number of file system
blocks (1 block is equivalent to 1
kilobyte) that were read when the command was processed the number of
times specified in the NUMBER CMDS column.  The number of
blocks read may not correspond with the number of characters transferred.
.LE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L\-c\*O"
Sorts in descending order according to total CPU time rather than 
total K-core minutes.
.LI "\*L\-j\*O"
Combines all commands called only once in the column specified by 
"\*L***other\*O" in the COMMAND NAME column.
.LI "\*L\-n\*O"
Sorts in descending order according to the number of times each 
command was called. 
.LI "\*L\-o\*O"
Displays a command summary of nonprime time commands. 
.LI "\*L\-p\*O"
Displays a command summary of prime time commands. 
.LI "\*L\-s\*O"
Assumes that any file specified after this flag is in binary format.
.LI "\*L\-t\*O"
Processes all records as total accounting records. The default binary
format splits each heading into prime time and nonprime time parts.
.LE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \*Lacctcms\*O command outputs data in a format called \*CTOTAL COMMAND 
SUMMARY\*O.  This command reads each file specified,
combines and sorts all records for identically named processes, and
writes them in a binary format to the output device.  Files are usually
organized in the \*Lacct\*O file format.  When you specify the \*L-o\*O
and \*L-p\*O flags together, the\*L acctcms\*O command produces a
summary report that combines commands processed during both prime and
nonprime time. All the output summaries specify total usage, except
for the number of times run, CPU minutes, and real minutes, which are
split into prime and nonprime minutes.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
To collect command accounting records from one or more source files into a
command summary file called \*Ltoday\*O and to maintain a running
total summary of commands in a file called \*Lcmtotal\*O, add the
following lines to an accounting shell script:
.iS
acctcms  [source  \*VFile(s)\*L ....]  >  today
cp  total  prev_tot
acctcms  -s  today  prev_tot  >  cmtotal
acctcms  -a  -s  cmtotal
.iE
First, the \*Lacctcms\*O command is used to redirect command records
in \*VFile(s)\*O that you specify to a file called \*Ltoday\*O. Next,
the old \*Ltotal\*O command summary file is renamed \*Lprev_tot\*O.
Then, the command summary records that are collected in the \*Ltoday\*O
and the \*Lprev_tot\*O files are redirected to a new command summary
file called \*Lcmtotal\*O. These are all binary files. The last
\*Lacctcms\*O command outputs to the default output device the
contents of the \*Lcmtotal\*O file in the ASCII default
command summary format previously described, so that the report may be
displayed.
.SH "FILES"
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/acct/acctcms\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/acct/holidays\*O"
This is where prime time is set.
.LI "\*L/usr/include/sys/acct.h\*O, \*L/usr/include/utmp.h\*O"
Accounting header files that define formats for writing accounting files.
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands: \*Lacct\*O(8), \*Lrunacct\*O(8)
.PP
Functions: \*Lacct\*O(2)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
