.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: addgroup.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 22:27:58 $
.\"
.TH addgroup 8
.SH NAME
\*Laddgroup\*O \- Adds a new group interactively
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/addgroup\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "addgroup command"
.iX "group" "adding a"
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBSecurity Note\fP
.sp 6p
.rS 5
If you have enhanced security installed on your system,
you should use the \*LXSysAdmin\*O the windowing interface to add a group.
See
\*EEnhanced Security\*O
and the \*LXSysAdmin\*O(8) reference page for more information.
.sp 6p
.rE
.PP
The \*Laddgroup\*O command is an interactive program for adding new groups
to the \*L/etc/group\*O file.  The program prompts you for specific
information and informs you of its activity and error conditions.
.PP
Only the superuser can execute this command.
.PP
The program performs the following tasks:
.ML
.LI
Queries for a new group name.  The default can be chosen by pressing
the Return key which will cause the program to exit without adding
a new group.  Enter the new group name or Return to exit.  If the new
group entered already exists in the \*L/etc/group\*O file, the program informs
you of this and cycles back to the query for a new group name.  If the new
group entered does not already exist, the program continues.
.LI
Queries for a group number (GID) for the new group.  A default GID
which is based on previously existing GID's in the \*L/etc/group\*O file is
displayed and can be selected by pressing the Return key.  Enter a new
GID or accept the default.  If the new GID entered already exists in the
\*L/etc/group\*O file, the program informs you of this and cycles back to the
query for a new group number (GID).  If the new GID entered does not
already exist in the \*L/etc/group\*O file, the program uses this GID and adds
the new group to the \*L/etc/group\*O file.
.LE
At this point, the program ends.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
\f(CWEnter a new group name or <Return> to exit: \*O \*Snewgroup\*O
.br
\f(CWEnter a new group number [112]: \*O
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 10m
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/addgroup\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Ladduser\*O(8), \*Lremoveuser\*O(8)
.PP
.VL 7m
Files:
.LI "\*L/etc/group\*O"
Group file
.LI "\*L/etc/ptmp\*O"
Lock file
.LE
.EQ
delim off
.EN
