.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: adduser.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 22:27:54 $
.\"
...\"
...\" @(#)adduser.8 6.4 (Berkeley) 10/1/87
...\"
.TH adduser 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ladduser\*O \- Adds a new user interactively
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/adduser\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "adduser command"
.iX "adding" "users"
.iX "new users"
.iX "user" "adding"
.iX "skeletal files"
.iX "files" "skeletal"
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBSecurity Note\fP
.sp 6p
.rS 5
If you have enhanced security installed on your system,
you should use the \*LXSysAdmin\*O the windowing interface to add users.
See
\*EEnhanced Security\*O
and the \*LXSysAdmin\*O(8) reference page for more information.
.sp 6p
.rE
.PP
The \*Ladduser\*O
command is an interactive program for adding new user accounts to your system.
The program prompts you for specific information and informs you of
its activity and error conditions.
.PP
Only the \*Lsuperuser\*O
can execute this command.
.PP
The program performs the following tasks:
.ML
.LI
Prompts you to enter a login name for the new user.  Enter the login
name.  If this entry
already exists in the
\*Lpasswd\*O
file, the program informs you of this and exits.  If the entry does not
already exist, the program creates one for the new user.
.LI
Prompts you to enter a UID for the new user.  A default UID which is based
on previously existing UID's in the
\*L/etc/passwd\*O file is displayed and can be selected by pressing the Return
key.  Enter a new UID or accept the default.  The program uses this UID in the
\*L/etc/passwd\*O file entry for the new user.
.LI
Prompts you for the full name of the new user.  Enter the user's full name.
This is sometimes called the "gecos" entry and is displayed by the \*Lfinger\*O command.
.LI
Prompts you to enter a login group for the new user and specifies the
default group, \*Lusers\*O.  To accept the default, press the Return
key.  To select a different group, enter the name of that group.
If the group does not exist, the program displays a message saying that
the group is unknown, lists the names of the groups that are available,
and asks whether or not you want to add the new group to the \*L/etc/group\*O
file.
.sp
If you choose the default, the program calls the \*Laddgroup\*O command
to add the new group to the \*L/etc/group\*O file.  The \*Laddgroup\*O
command queries for the group number of this new group and displays a default
value based on existing group numbers in the \*L/etc/group\*O file.  Select
the default value by pressing Return.  Enter a group number or select the
default.  At this point, the \*Laddgroup\*O program ends and the
\*Ladduser\*O program resumes.  See the
\*ESystem Administration\*O
for more information on the \*L/etc/group\*O file.
.LI
Prompts you for the name of other groups for the user to belong to.
Again, the group you specify must already exist.  If you specify a
group to which the user already belongs, the program informs you of
this.
.LI
Prompts you to enter the base directory for the new user and specifies the
default directory, \*L/usr/users\*O.  To accept the default, press the
Return key.  To select a different home directory, enter the path of that
directory.  The path that you specify must exist within a mounted file system.
.LI
Displays a message that it is adding the new user.  At this point,
the program makes an entry for the user in the \*Lpasswd\*O file, creates the
home directory, creates the mail directory, sets ownership and access
permissions on the new user's home and mail directories, and copies
startup files such as \*L.cshrc\*O, \*L.login\*O, and \*L.profile\*O for the
new user to the home directory.
.LI
If a hashed \*Lpasswd\*O database existed previously, the
system displays a message stating the number of password entries and the
maximum length.  If a hashed \*Lpasswd\*O database did not
exist previously, the program displays a message
telling you that the hashed \*Lpasswd\*O database does not exist and
asks if you want a database created.  If you want a hashed \*Lpasswd\*O
database, enter \*Lyes\*O at the prompt and the \*Ladduser\*O program
creates one for you.  If you do not want a hashed \*Lpasswd\*O database,
enter \*Lno\*O at the prompt.
.LI
The \*Ladduser\*O program automatically runs the \*Lpasswd\*O command
which asks you to enter and verify a new password for the user.  Note, you
cannot use all lower case letters.  If you do, the program asks that you use
unusual capitalization and suggests using control characters.
.sp
If you mistype the password when you are asked to verify it, no password is
set and the account is disabled.  To enable the user account, enter the
\*Lpasswd\*O command followed by the user name.
.LE
At this point, the program ends.
.PP
The \*Ladduser\*O program automatically creates a \*L/var/spool/mail\*O
directory for the user.  This directory is owned by the user.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
\f(CWEnter a login name for the new user (for example, john): \*O \*Schris\*O
.br
\f(CWEnter a UID for (chris) [5006]: \*O
.br
\f(CWEnter a full name for (chris): \*O \*SChris Ryan\*O
.br
\f(CWEnter a login group for (chris) [users]: \*O
.br
\f(CWEnter another group that (chris) should be a member of. \*O
.br
\f(CW(<Return> for none): \*O
.br
\f(CWEnter a parent directory for (chris) [/usr/users]: \*O
.br
\f(CWThe shells are: \*O
.br
\f(CW/bin/sh        /bin/csh        /bin/ksh \*O
.br
\f(CWEnter a login shell for (chris) [/bin/sh]: \*O
.br
\f(CWAdding new user ...\*O
.br
Rebuilding the passwd database...
.br
709 password entries, maximum length 152
.br
\f(CWCreating home directory...\*O
.br
\f(CWYou must enter a new password for (chris).\*O
.br
\f(CWChanging password for chris.\*O
.br
\f(CWNew password: \*O
.br
\f(CWRetype new password: \*O
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/adduser\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Laddgroup\*O(8), \*Lchfn\*O(1), \*Lchsh\*O(1), \*Lfinger\*O(1),
\*Lmkpasswd\*O(8), \*Lpasswd\*O(1), \*Lremoveuser\*O(8), \*Lvipw\*O(8)
.PP
.VL 7m
Files:
.LI "\*L/etc/group\*O"
Group file
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O"
Password file
.LI "\*L/etc/ptmp\*O"
Lock file
.LI "\*L/usr/skel\*O"
Default files directory
.LE
.EQ
delim off
.EN
