.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: arp.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/29 15:58:33 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH arp 8
.SH NAME
\*Larp\*O \- Displays and controls Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) tables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
\*L/usr/sbin/arp\*O [\*L-u\*O] \*Vhostname\*O
.PP
\*Larp\*O \*L-a\*O [\*L-u\*O] [\*Vsystem\*O] [\*Vcore\*O]
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP
\*Larp\*O \*L-d\*O \*Vhostname\*O
.PP
\*Larp\*O \*L-f\*O \*Vfilename\*O
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
\*Larp\*O \*L-s\*O [\*L-u\*O] \*Vhostname\*O \*Vhardware_addr\*O [\*Ltemp\*O] [\*Lpub\*O] [\*Ltrail\*O]
.\" End Digital-specific information
.sE
.PP
The \*Larp\*O command displays and modifies the ARP tables that map
Internet addresses to
network hardware addresses.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L-a\*O [\*Vsystem\*O] [\*Vcore\*O]"
Displays all of the current ARP entries by reading the table from
the file \*Vcore\*O (default \*L/dev/kmem\*O) based on the
kernel file \*Vsystem\*O (default \*L/vmunix\*O).
.LI "\*L-d \*Vhostname\*O"
Deletes the entry for \*Vhostname\*O if the
user issuing the command has superuser authority.
.LI "\*L-f \*Vfilename\*O"
Reads entries from \*Vfilename\*O and adds those
entries to the ARP tables.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Added sentence per QAR 10702.
Use of this flag requires superuser privilege.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
Entries in the file are in the following form:
.iS
\*Vhostname\*O \*Vhardware_addr\*O [\*Ltemp\*O] [\*Lpub\*O] [\*Ltrail\*O]
.iE
where:
.VL
.LI "\*Vhostname\*O"
Specifies the remote host identified by the entry.
.LI "\*Vhardware_addr\*O"
Specifies the hardware address of the remote host.
The address is given as 6 hexadecimal bytes separated by colons.
.LI "\*Ltemp"
Specifies that this ARP table entry is temporary.
When this argument is not used, the table entry is permanent.
.LI "\*Lpub"
Indicates that the table entry will be published and that the
current system will act as an ARP server, responding to requests for
\*Vhostname\*O even though the host address is not its own.
.LI "\*Ltrail"
Indicates that the trailer encapsulation may be sent to this host.
.LE
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Added a space before 'hostname' per QAR 10704.
.LI "\*L-s\*O \*Vhostname\*O \*Vhardware_addr\*O [\*Ltemp\*O] [\*Lpub\*O] [\*Ltrail\*O]"
Creates a single ARP entry for \*Vhostname\*O.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Added sentence per QAR 10702.
Use of this flag requires superuser privilege.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
The arguments are explained in the discussion of
the \*L-f\*O flag.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.LI "[\*L-u\*O]"
Displays the MAC address in non-canonical form with address
bytes reversed and separated by a colon character (':'). By default, all
addresses are displayed in non-canonical form with address bytes separated by
the hyphen character ('-').
.IP
When used with the \*L-s\*O flag, this indicates that the \*Vhardware_addr\*O
is in non-canonical form.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "arp"
.iX "displaying" "Internet-to-hardware address translation"
.iX "Internet-to-hardware address translation"
.iX "addresses" "Internet-to-hardware translation"
.iX "translation" "Internet-to-hardware addresses"
The \*Larp\*O command displays or modifies the current ARP entry for
the host specified by \*Vhostname\*O.
The host may be specified by name or number, using Internet dot notation.
.PP
With no flags, the program displays the current ARP entry for \*Vhostname\*O.
.PP
The ARP tables can be displayed by any user, but only the superuser can modify
them.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.\" Changed the addresses
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.LI
To display the ARP address mapping tables for the local host that has
one interface defined, enter:
.iS
arp -a

alpha1.dec.com (16.181.20.2) at 08-00-2b-2c-f5-31
alpha2.dec.com (16.100.21.20) at 08-00-2b-3c-2d-fd
.iE
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.LI
To add a single entry for the remote host \*Llaszlo\*O to
the ARP mapping tables temporarily, enter:
.iS
arp -s laszlo 08:00:2b:0f:44:23 temp
.iE
The address is considered canonical even though the bytes are separated by
colons. For input, the \*Larp\*O command does not use the colon (':') and
hyphen ('-') characters to indicate whether the address is canonical or
non-canonical.
.IP
Note that you must have superuser authority to execute this command.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.LI
To add a single entry for the remote host \*Llaszlo\*O to
the ARP mapping tables temporarily, enter:
.iS
arp -u -s laszlo 10:00:d4:f0:22:c4 temp
.iE
The \*L-u\*O flag indicates the address is non-canonical. Note that
you must have superuser authority to execute this command.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI
To add multiple entries to the ARP mapping tables from the file
\*Lnewentries\*O, enter:
.iS
arp -f newentries
.iE
Note that you must have superuser authority to execute this command.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/arp"
Specifies the command path
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:
\*Lnetstat\*O(1),
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Changed (4) to (7) per QAR 10706.
\*Larp\*O(7),
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
\*Lifconfig\*O(8)
.PP
Specifications:  RFC826.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
