.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: audgen.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:21:40 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)audgen.8	x.x	11/21/87
.TH audgen 8
.SH NAME
.PP
audgen \- generate an audit record (Enhanced Security)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/audgen\*O
\*Vaudit_record_parameter_list\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "audgen command"
The
\*Laudgen\*O
utility generates an audit record, which gets placed in the auditlog.
Standard audit event information, such as identification
information and timestamp, are automatically inserted.
The
\*Vaudit_record_parameter_list\*O
consists of 1 to 8 strings,
each of which gets inserted into the audit record.
The event type is set to AUDGEN8.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
This utility makes use of the
\*Laudgen\*O(2)
system call, which requires privilege.
No record will be generated if the event AUDGEN8 is not being audited
for the current process.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following is an example of an \*Vaudit_record_parameter_list\*O
for \*Laudgen\*O:
.PP
.oS
# audgen "string 1" "string 2" string3
.oE
.PP
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Laudgen\*O(2), \*Laudit_setup\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
