.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: audit_tool.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:21:49 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)audit_tool.8 4.0 5/54/13/89
.TH audit_tool 8
.SH NAME
.PP
audit_tool \- auditlog reduction tool (Enhanced Security)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/audit_tool\*O [
\*Voptions\*O
]
\*Vauditlog_filename\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "audit_tool command"
.iX "auditlog reduction tool"
The
\*Laudit_tool\*O
presents a human-understandable format of selected portions of the
collected audit data.  If no arguments are provided, a brief help
message will be displayed.  The
auditlog file
may be compressed or uncompressed.
The
\*Laudit_tool\*O
command will uncompress the
auditlog file
if necessary, and
re-compress it if it was originally compressed.
.PP
Options are used to select specific audit records of interest.   For a
record to be selected, it must match at least one option of each option
type specified.  For example, if two usernames and one hostname were
specified, an audit record to be selected would have to match one of the
usernames and the hostname.  Only one start/end time may be selected.
Only one deselection rulesfile may be selected.  It is possible to select
as many events as exists on the system.  For all other option types, up to
8 instances may be selected.
.PP
The output from \*Laudit_tool\*O is written to \*Lstdout\*O.
Informational messages, such as "(\*L100000 records processed...)\*O",
are written to \*Lstderr\*O.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.iX "audit_tool command" "options"
.SS "Selection Flags"
.IP "\*L\-a \*Vaudit_id\*O" 12
Selects audit records with a matching
\*Vaudit_id.\*O
The default is to select for all
\*Vaudit_id\*O 's.
.IP "\*L\-e \*Vevent\*O[\*V.subevent\*O][\*V:success:fail\*O]" 12
Selects records with a matching \*Vevent\*O or \*Vevent.subevent\*O.
The \*Vsubevent\*O can be applied only to site events.
Optionally select only those
records with a successful/failed return value.
For example, the option
\*L\-e open:0:1\*O
selects for only failed \*Lopen\*O events while
\*L\-e rdb.open:1:0\*O selects successful
\*Lrdb\*O events with the
.PN open
subevent.
Multiple events may be
specified on the command line.
The default is to select for all events, both
successful and failed.
.IP "\*L\-E \*Verror\*O" 12
Selects records with a matching \*Verror\*O string or \*Verror\*O number.
The default is to select for all errors.
.IP "\*L\-h \*Vhostname/IP address\*O" 12
Selects records with a matching hostname or IP address.  Hostnames are
translated to their IP addresses by the \*Lgethostbyname\*O() logic.
The default is to select for all hostnames and IP addresses.
.IP "\*L\-p \*Vpid\*O" 12
Selects records with a matching pid.
The default is to select for all pids.
.IP "\*L\-P \*Vppid\*O" 12
Selects records with a matching parent pid (ppid).
The default is to select for all ppids.
.IP "\*L\-r \*Vruid\*O" 12
Selects records with a matching real uid (ruid).
The default is to select for all ruids.
.IP "\*L\-s \*Vstring\*O" 12
Selects records which contain
\*Vstring\*O
in a parameter field or associated with a
descriptor field.
The default is to select for all strings.
.IP "\*L\-t \*Vstart_time\*O" 12
Selects records which contain a timestamp no earlier than
\*Vstart_time\*O.
Timestamp format is
\*Vyymmdd[hh[mm[ss]]].\*O
The default is to select for all timestamps.
.IP "\*L\-T \*Vend_time\*O" 12
Selects records which contain a timestamp no later than
\*Vstart_time\*O.
Timestamp format is
\*Vyymmdd[hh[mm[ss]]].\*O
The default is to select for all timestamps.
.IP "\*L\-u \*Vuid\*O" 12
Selects audit records with a matching uid.
The default is to select for all uid's.
.IP "\*L\-U \*Vusername\*O" 12
Selects audit records with a matching username.  Usernames are recorded at
the
\*Vlogin\*O
event and are associated with all child processes.
If
\*Vlogin\*O
is not audited, no username will be present in the auditlog.
Selecting for a
\*Vusername\*O
will display those records which have a
matching username.
The default is to select for all usernames.
.IP "\*L\-v \*Vvnode_id\*O" 12
Selects records with a matching vnode identifier number.
The default is to select for all vnode id's.
.IP "\*L\-V \*Vvnode_dev major#,minor#\*O" 12
Selects records with matching vnode device major/minor numbers.
The default is to select for all vnode devices.
.IP "\*L\-x \*Vmajor#,minor#\*O" 12
Selects audit records with matching device major/minor numbers.
The default is to select for all devices.
.IP "\*L\-y\*O" 12
Selects records with matching process name (name used by
.PN exec ).
.SS "Control Flags"
.IP "\*L\-b\*O" 12
Outputs selected records in binary format.
The output is in a format suitable for subsequent analysis by the
\*Laudit_tool\*O.
The default is to output in ASCII format.
.IP "\*L\-B\*O" 12
Outputs selected records in an abbreviated format.
Each selected event is displayed along with its audit_id, ruid,
result, error code, pid, event name, and parameter list.
Suppressed information includes the username, ppid,
device id, current directory, vnode information, symbolic
name referenced by any descriptors, IP address, and timestamp.
The default is to output in the non-abbreviated format.
.IP "\*L\-d \*Vfilename\*O" 12
Reads deselection rules from the specified file and suppresses any records
matching any of the deselection rules.
The deselection rulesets take
precedence over other selection options.  Each deselection rule is a tuple
consisting of hostname, audit_id, ruid, event, pathname, and flag.  The flag
component is used to specify read or write mode; it pertains only to open
events.  Wildcarding and simple pattern matching are supported.
Take, for example, the following lines from a deselection file:
.IP
\*L# HOST, AUID, RUID, EVENT, PATHNAME, FLAG
.br
* * * open /usr/lib/* r
.br
grumpy * * * /usr/spool/rwho* *\*O
.IP
These lines indicate
that any open operations for read access on any object whose
pathname starts with
\*L/usr/lib/\*O
will not be selected, and on system
\*Lgrumpy\*O
any operations performed on any object whose pathname starts on
\*L/usr/spool/rwho\*O
will not be selected.  (Lines beginning with number signs (#) are
treated as comment lines).  Any field can be replaced with an asterisk
(*), which indicates a match with any value.  Pathname matching requires
an exact match between strings, unless the pathname is suffixed with an
asterisk, which matches any string (so, for example,
\*L/usr/spool/rwho*\*O
matches
\*L/usr/spool/rwho/anything\*O).
The default is to apply no deselection rulesets.
(Specifying the
\*L\-D\*O
option instead of
\*L\-d\*O
will additionally print the deselection rulesets to be applied).
.IP "\*L\-F\*O" 12
Sets the fast mode.
If you are not interested in seeing the state-dependent data, 
you may use this option to improve performance.
.IP "\*L\-f\*O" 12
Causes the
\*Laudit_tool\*O
not to quit at and end-of-file, but to continue
attempting to read data.  This is useful
for reviewing auditlog data as it
is being written by the audit daemon.
(For SMP systems, audit data should
be sorted first, as descriptor translation, loginname, current directory,
and root directory all rely on state information maintained by the
\*Laudit_tool\*O).
.IP "\*L\-i\*O" 12
Enter interactive selection mode to specify options.  Interactive mode may
also be entered by hitting CTRL/C at any time, then specifying
``no'' to the exit prompt.  Once in interactive mode,
each option will be selected for.  Press Return
to accept the current setting (or default); enter
an asterisk (*) to change the current setting back to the default.
The default, unless otherwise stated, is to select every audit record.
.IP "\*L\-o\*O" 12
Whenever the audit daemon switches auditlogs, an audit_log_change event is
generated.  If that event did result in an auditlog change (that is, it
was an event which occurred on the local system),
the
\*Laudit_tool\*O
will normally attempt to find and
process the succeeding auditlog.  This is possible, however,
only if the auditlog is
maintained locally.  The
\*L\-o\*O
option tells the
\*Laudit_tool\*O
not to process succeeding auditlogs.
.IP "\*L\-R\*O \[\*Vname\*O\]" 12
Generates an ASCII report for each
\*Vaudit_id\*O
found in the selected events.
If \*Vname\*O is a directory, the reports are placed in the directory 
with the \*Lreport.\*Vaudit_id\*O file name format. Otherwise, the reports
are placed in a file called \*Vname.audit_id\*O.
Each report consists of 
selected events for the associated \*Vaudit_id\*O.
.IP "\*L\-S\*O" 12
Performs a sort (by time) on the auditlog.  The sort performed is an
inter-cpu sort only (for any specific cpu, data may be non-sequential for
events such as fork and vfork; this information does not need to be sorted
for proper operation of the reduction tool).  This option is useful only
for data collected on an SMP system.
.IP "\*L\-w\*O" 12
Display the name associated with RUIDs and GIDs using the
.PN getpw*
and
.PN getgr*
routines.
This is done only if the
.PN audit_tool
has no name for the RUID/GID.
The name is sent to output within parentheses.
.IP "\*L\-Z\*O" 12
Displays the frequency count for the selected events.
.PP
The audit reduction tool generates auditlog header files, suffixed
with .hdr, when it completes processing of an
\*L auditlog\*O file.  If the
\*L\-o\*O
option is used, no auditlog header file is generated.
This header file contains the time range in which the
audited operations occurred, so searching for events by time requires only
those auditlogs which were actually written into during that time to be
processed. The header file also contains the sort
status of the auditlog, so previously sorted logs do not get sorted more
than once, and state-relevant data from previous logs.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The audit reduction tool maintains the state of each process in order to
translate descriptors back to pathnames, as well as provide current working
directory, root, and username.  In order not to run out of memory for
state-dependent data,
\*Lexit\*O(2)
should be an audited event.
(If state-relevant data is not important for your auditing requirements,
\*Lexit\*O(2) need not be audited.)
In order to provide current working directory,
\*Lchdir\*O(2)
should be an audited event.  In order to provide current root (if
not /),
\*Lchroot\*O(2)
should be an audited event. In order to provide
username, \*Llogin\*O should be an audited event.
.PP
If \*Laudit_tool\*O runs out of memory, it will not be able to store
further state-dependent data (as described above).  If this occurs, the
following warning is displayed:
.IP
\*Lwarning: state_maint_{add,open,path_change): no more mem; ...\*O
.PP
All state-dependent information current at the time of an auditlog change
is maintained in the header file.  This allows subsequent scans of a
specific auditlog to not have any dependencies on previous auditlogs.
.PP
See
\*EEnhanced Security\*O
for further discussion of state-dependent information.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.iX "audit_tool command" "examples"
The following example selects all
\*Llogin\*O,
\*Lopen\*O
and
\*Lcreat\*O
events performed on system
\*Lgrumpy\*O
by any process with audit_id 1123:
.PP
.oS
# audit_tool \-e login \-e open \-e creat \-h grumpy \-a 1123 auditlog.000
.oE
.PP
The following example applies deselection file
\*Vdeselect\*O
to
auditlog.000 and selects for events between 10:47 a.m. on April 13, 1986
and 5:30 p.m. on April 20, 1986:
.PP
.oS
# audit_tool \-d deselect \-t 8604131047 \-T 8604201730 auditlog.000
.oE
.PP
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lauditd\*O(8), \*Lauditmask\*O(8), \*Laudit_setup\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
