.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: auditd.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:21:54 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)auditd.8 4.0 11/04/14/89
.TH auditd 8
.SH NAME
.PP
auditd \- audit daemon (Enhanced Security)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/auditd\*O [
\*Voptions ...\*O
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "audit daemon"
The audit daemon,
\*Lauditd\*O,
operates as a server,
monitoring
\*L/dev/audit\*O
for local audit
data, monitoring a known port for data from remote cooperating audit
daemons, and monitoring an AF_UNIX socket for input from the system
administrator.
.PP
Local audit data is read from the
\*L/dev/audit\*O
device.
Data read from
\*L/dev/audit\*O
is buffered by the audit daemon, and
eventually output into the
auditlog when the buffer nears capacity or the daemon receives an explicit
instruction from the administrator to flush its buffer.
.PP
Local administrative data is read via the socket
\*L/tmp/.audit/audS\*O.
Input from the system administrator allows for
changing of the daemon's configurable
options.  The administrator communicates with the audit daemon by
executing
\*Lauditd\*O
with the desired options.  The first invocation
of
\*Lauditd\*O
spawns the daemon; subsequent invocations detect that an audit
daemon already exists and will communicate with it, passing along
directions for the selected options.  The first invocation of the daemon
also turns on auditing for the system (\*Laudcntl\*O(2)).
When the daemon is
terminated, by the \*L\-k\*O
option or
the SIGTERM signal, auditing is turned off.
It is important not to have system auditing turned on when there is no
audit daemon running on the system (processes being audited will sleep
until
\*L/dev/audit\*O
is read, which is typically done by the audit daemon).
.PP
Remote audit data is first detected
when the remote audit daemon attempts
to communicate with the local audit daemon.
To establish a communications
path between the remote and the local daemons,
the remote audit daemon's
hostname is first checked against a list of hosts allowed to transmit data
to the local host. This list is maintained in
\*L/etc/sec/auditd_clients\*O.
If
the remote host is allowed to transfer audit data to the local host, a
child audit daemon dedicated to communicating with the remote host is
spawned.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.iX "auditd command" "options"
.\" .IP "\*L\-a\*O" 12
.\" Toggle the KERBEROS switch.  If on, KERBEROS authentication routines will
.\" be used to verify the identity of any audit daemons attempting to
.\" communicate.  This occurs either when sending to a remote host (by
.\" the \*L\-i\*O
.\" option) or accepting from remote hosts
.\" (by the \*L\-s\*O
.\" option).
.\" .IP "\*L\-b \*Valternate_pathname\*O" 12
.\" Sets the pathname to which the audit daemon will write its data should the
.\" location currently accepting data become unavailable.  This can happen should
.\" the current location specify a remote host which is no longer available, or
.\" when the filesystem of the current location reaches an overflow condition
.\" (in this case, the alternate pathname must specify a partition other than
.\" the currently overflowing partition).
.SS "Audit Data and Messages"
.IP "\*L\-c \*Vpathname\*O" 12
Sets the pathname to which the audit daemon will post any warning or
informational messages (such as "audit log change").  This may be either a
device or local file.
.IP "\*L\-h\*O" 12
Outputs a brief help menu.
.IP "\*L\-l \*Vhostname\*L:\*O" 12
Causes the audit daemon to transfer its audit data to the audit daemon
executing on the remote host
\*Vhostname\*O.  If the remote site stops
receiving, the local daemon will store its data
locally as specified with the \*L\-o\*O and \*L\-r\*O options to
\*Lauditd\*O.
.IP "\*L\-l \*Vpathname\*O" 12
Causes the audit daemon to output its audit data to the local
file
\*Vpathname\*O.
.IP "\*L\-q\*O" 12
Queries the audit daemon for the current location of the audit data.
.SS "auditd Control"
.IP "\*L\-d \*O[\*Vfreq\*O]" 12
Causes the audit daemon to dump its currently buffered audit data out
to
\*L/dev/audit\*O.
The audit daemon normally dumps its buffer only when it
approaches capacity.
.IP
If a frequency (\*Vfreq\*O) is specified, the audit daemon dumps its
data at the specified frequency. The \*Vfreq\*O is specified as \*Vn\*O[wdhms]
for weeks, days, hours, minutes, and seconds.
For example, to dump the audit daemon data
every 36 hours use the \*L\-d 1d12h\*O option.
.IP
Specifying \*L0s\*O (zero seconds) disables the previously specified frequency.
.IP "\*L\-k\*O" 12
Kills the audit daemon (killing the local daemon turns audit off).
.IP "\*L\-p \*Vdaemon id\*O" 12
Specifies the id of the audit daemon to receive the current options.  When
the local audit daemon accepts a connection to receive data from
a remote audit
daemon, a dedicated child audit daemon is spawned off from the
local audit daemon to
service that connection.  With this scenario, multiple audit daemons
may exist on a single system.
Specifying the id of the
\*Lauditd\*O
allows for communication with one of the child audit daemons.  The
id for each daemon can be found by entering the following at the
command line:
.IP 12
\*L# /usr/sbin/auditd \-w\*O
.IP "" 12
The previous command line displays
the current options.  No id's are displayed unless at least one child
audit daemon exists.
If the \*L\-p\*O
option is not specified when running with
more than one audit daemon, the master daemon (accepting audit data for the
local system) handles the request.  When the master daemon is killed,
it kills all of its child daemons.
.IP "\*L\-r\*O" 12
Reads a list of directories into which \*Lauditd\*O may switch
its audit log file when an overflow condition is reached.
The list is maintained in
\*L/etc/sec/auditd_loc\*O.
The maximum size of the list (\*L/etc/sec/auditd_loc\*O) is 8 Kbytes.
The \*L\-r\*O option is used when the overflow
action is set to \*Lchangeloc\*O (\*Lauditd\*O \*L\-o\*O \*Lchangeloc\*O).
.IP "\*L\-w\*O" 12
Shows the current status of the audit daemons options.
.IP "\*L\-x\*O" 12
Auditlog pathnames are always appended with a suffix consisting of a
generation number.  These generation numbers range from 000 to 999.
(Generation numbers may be overridden with an explicit generation number
specification on the pathname for the \*L\-l\*O option,
for example
\*Lauditlog.345\*O).
The \*L\-x\*O
option causes a change in
auditlog to the next auditlog in the
generation number sequence.  (If the current log was
\*Lauditlog.345\*O,
then \*L\-x\*O
would change the log to
\*Lauditlog.346\*O).
Whenever an auditlog is
closed, it is also compressed (by
\*L/usr/ucb/compress\*O).
.SS "Network"
.IP "\*L\-n \*Vkbytes\*O" 12
Sets the size of the audit daemons buffer for the audit data (minimum is 4).
.IP "\*L\-s\*O" 12
Toggles the network server switch.  If on, allows the audit daemon to
accept audit data from other audit daemons whose hostnames are specified in
the
\*L/etc/sec/auditd_clients\*O
file.
.IP "\*L\-t \*Vtimeout_value\*O" 12
Sets the timeout value used in establishing initial connections with remote
audit daemons.
.SS "Overflow Control"
.IP "\*L\-f \*Vpercentage\*O" 12
Sets the minimum percent free space on the current partition before
an overflow
condition is triggered.
.IP "\*L\-o \*Vaction\*O" 12
Sets the action that \*Lauditd\*O takes on an overflow condition.
The following \*Vaction\*Os are the available for the \*L\-o\*O option:
.RS 12
.IP "\*Lchangeloc\*O" 12
Change to the next logfile as specified in the \*L/etc/sec/auditd_loc\*O file.
.IP "\*Lsuspend\*O" 12
Suspend auditing.
.IP "\*Loverwrite\*O" 12
Overwrite the current audit log file.
This \*Vaction\*O causes the loss of previously
logged audit data.
.IP "\*Lkill\*O" 12
Terminates the audit daemon.
.IP "\*Lhalt\*O" 12
Immediately halts the system by doing a reboot.
.RE
.\"Sets the system action to take on a local overflow condition.  Alternatives
.\"are a) use the alternate log specified via \-b option, b) shutdown the system,
.\"c) switch to the root-mounted filesystem with the most free space, d)
.\"suspend auditing until space is made available, and e) overwrite the
.\"current auditlog.
.\" .IP "\*L\-z\*O" 12
.\" Removes any AF_UNIX sockets left by previous daemons.  This occurs
.\" when the system shuts down abnormally.  This option is useful typically
.\" only for the
.\" .PN auditd
.\" invocation from the
.\" .PN /etc/rc.local
.\" file.  If no
.\" AF_UNIX socket is present, the next invocation of
.\" .PN auditd
.\" will start the
.\" .PN audit
.\" daemon.  If an AF_UNIX socket is present, the next invocation of
.\" .PN auditd
.\" will spawn a client process which will communicate with the system audit
.\" daemon.  This \*L\-z\*O
.\" option removes any leftover AF_UNIX sockets, forcing
.\" a new audit daemon to start.  This should be used only when no audit daemon
.\" is present on the system.
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/etc/sec/auditd_clients\*O
.br
\*L/etc/sec/auditd_loc\*O
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Laudcntl\*O(2), \*Laudit\*O(7), \*Laudit_setup\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
