.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: audit_setup.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:21:44 $
.\"
.\" Created by Dave Suitor for T1.4-5 
.\" From scott Thu Jul 22 16:01:13 1993
.TH audit_setup 8
.SH NAME
.PP
audit_setup \- audit setup script (Enhanced Security)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f3/usr/sbin/audit_setup\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "audit_setup script"
.iX "setting up audit"
The
.PN audit_setup
script is used to establish the audit environment on your system. The
.PN audit_setup
script is an interactive, menu driven utility.
.PP
The following steps are taken to set up audit:
.AL
.LI
Establish startup flags for the audit daemon,
.LI
Establish startup flags for the auditmask,
.LI
Create the /dev/audit device (if needed),
.LI
Configure a new kernel (if needed).
.LE
.PP
The following options to
.PN auditd
can be set using
.PN audit_setup .
.ML
.LI
Destination of audit data
.LI
Destination of auditd messages
.LI
Action to take on an overflow condition
.LI
Enable accepting audit data from remote auditd's.
.LE
.PP
The auditmask establishes which events get audited.  This can be specified
by:
.ML
.LI
Having the auditmask read a list of events from a file,
.sp
      -or-
.LI
Specifying a list of events on the command line.
.LE
.PP
Events can refer to syscalls, trusted events, site-defined events, or
alias names.
.PP
The
.PN audit_setup
script can also be used to modify you system configuration file.
.PP
You must be root to run
.PN audit_setup .
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
The following is a sample
.PN audit_setup
session.
.oS
********************************************************************
		Audit Subsystem Setup Script
********************************************************************
  The following steps will be taken to set up audit:
    1) establish startup flags for the audit daemon,
    2) establish startup flags for the auditmask,
    3) create the /dev/audit device (if needed),
    4) configure a new kernel (if needed).
  Do you wish to have security auditing enabled as part of
  system initialization (answer 'n' to disable) ([y]/n)?  y
    ----------------------------
     Audit Daemon Startup Flags
    ----------------------------
  Some of the options to 'auditd' control:
    1) destination of audit data,
    2) destination of auditd messages,
    3) action to take on an overflow condition,
    4) enable accepting audit data from remote auditd's.
  Destination of audit data (file|host:) [/var/audit/auditlog]?  <CR>
    Directory /var/audit/ does not exist; create it now (y/[n])?  y
  Destination of auditd messages [/var/audit/auditd_cons]?  <CR>
  Action to take on an overflow condition may be one of:
    1)  change audit data location according to '/etc/sec/auditd_loc'
    2)  suspend auditing until space becomes available
    3)  overwrite the current auditlog
    4)  terminate auditing
    5)  halt the system
  Action (1-5) [1]?  <CR>
    Don't forget to list in '/etc/sec/auditd_loc' the alternate directories
    in which to store audit data.
    Do you wish to edit /etc/sec/auditd_loc now (y/[n])?  <CR>
  Accept data from remote auditd's (y/[n])?  y
    Don't forget to place names of remote hosts from which data
    may be accepted into '/etc/sec/auditd_clients'.
    Do you wish to edit /etc/sec/auditd_clients now (y/[n])?  y
?auditd_clients
a
sleepy
sleepy.zk3.dec.com
\&.
1,$n
1		sleepy
2		sleepy.zk3.dec.com
w
q
  Further options are available for advanced users of the audit system
  (please refer to the auditd manpage).  If you wish to specify any further
  options you may do so now (<cr> for none):  <CR>
  Startup flags for 'auditd' set to:
    -l /var/audit/auditlog -c y -o changeloc -r -s
  Is this correct ([y]/n)?  y
    -------------------------
     Auditmask Startup Flags
    -------------------------
  The auditmask establishes which events get audited.  This can be specified
  by:
    1) having the auditmask read a list of events from a file,
      -or-
    2) specifying a list of events on the command line.
  Events can refer to syscalls, trusted events, site-defined events, or
  alias names.
  The file '/etc/sec/audit_events' contains a list of all auditable system
  calls and trusted (application) events.  You may either modify this file
  or use it as a template.
  The file '/etc/sec/event_aliases' contains a set of aliases by which
  logically related groupings of events may be constructed.  You may modify
  this set of aliases to suit your site's requirements.
  Enter filename containing event list or * to indicate that events
  will be listed on the command line (<cr> for no events):  /etc/sec/audit_events
    Do you wish to edit /etc/sec/audit_events now (y/[n])?  <CR>
  The auditmask also sets various style flags such as:
    1) 'exec_argp'   - audit argument vector to exec system calls
    2) 'exec_envp'   - audit environment vector to exec system calls
    3) 'login_uname' - audit recorded username in failed login events
  Enable exec_argp ([y]/n)?  <CR>
  Enable exec_envp (y/[n])?  <CR>
  Enable login_uname ([y]/n)?  <CR>
  Startup flags for 'auditmask' set to:
     -s exec_argp -s login_uname < /etc/sec/audit_events
  Is this correct ([y]/n)?  <CR>
    ----------------------
     System Configuration
    ----------------------
  UNWIRE is already configured for security aditing (/sys/conf/UNWIRE).
  Would you like to start audit now ([y]/n)?  <CR>
    '/usr/sbin/auditd' started.
    '/usr/sbin/auditmask' set.
  ***** AUDIT SETUP COMPLETE *****
.oE
.PP
#
.SH FILES
.PP
.IP "\*L/etc/sec/event_aliases\*O"
This file contains a set of aliases by which
logically related groupings of events may be constructed.  You may modify
this set of aliases to suit your site's requirements.
.IP "\*L/etc/sec/auditd_clients\*O"
A list of hosts from which audit data can be accepted.
.IP "\*L/etc/sec/auditd_loc\*O"
A list of alternative locations in which
.PN auditd
stores audit data when an overflow condition is reached.
.IP "\*L/etc/sec/audit_events\*O"
This file contains a list of all auditable system
calls and trusted (application) events.  You may either modify this file
or use it as a template.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lauditmask\*O(8),
\*Lauditd\*O(8)
.PP
\*EEnhanced Security\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
