.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: auditmask.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:21:59 $
.\"
.TH auditmask 8
.SH NAME
.PP
auditmask \- get or set auditmasks (Enhanced Security)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/auditmask \*O[ \*Voptions\*O ] [
\*Vevent\*O[:\*Vsucceed\*O:\*Vfail\*O]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "auditmask command"
The
.PN auditmask
command with no arguments displays the system
calls, trusted events, and site events
currently being audited for the system, and displays whether
they are being audited under successful or failed occurrences or both.
The format used for the display is acceptable as input to subsequent
.PN auditmask
commands.
.PP
The
.PN auditmask
command with
\*Vevent\*O
arguments sets the system call, trusted event, or site event
audit masks for the system.  This is cumulative operation, so it is
possible to turn on or off audit for one set of events, then turn on or
off audit for a second set of events without changing the first set of
events (except for intersection between the two sets).  Command line
arguments to
.PN auditmask
can include one or more events, each with an optional field
:\*Vsucceed\*O:\*Vfail\*O, where
\*Vsucceed\*O
is
either 0 to specify no auditing of successful
occurrences of
\*Vevent\*O, or 1 (or any non-zero character)
to specify auditing of successful
occurrences of
\*Vevent\*O; and
\*Vfail\*O
is either 0 to specify
no auditing of failed occurrences of
\*Vevent\*O
or 1 (or any non-zero
character) to specify auditing of failed occurrences of
\*Vevent\*O.
The event name is one of the following:
.ML
.LI
The system call name or
the trusted event name (see
\*Laudit.h\*O).
.LI
A site defined name in \*L/etc/sec/site_events\*O.
.LI
An alias defined in \*L/etc/sec/event_aliases\*O.
.LE
.PP
The
.PN auditmask
command will also accept redirected input,
which can be the output of a previously issued
.PN auditmask
command.  This is a file which contains lines of the format
.PN "event\ [succeed]\ [fail]" .
If the keyword
\*Vsucceed\*O
is present, successful occurrences of
that event will be audited; if the keyword
\*Vfail\*O
is present, failed occurrences of that event will be audited; if both are
present, successful and failed occurrences will be audited; if neither
keyword is present, that event will not be audited.
.PP
The
\*Vauditmask\*O
command can also be used to set the audit style
characteristics of the audit subsystem.
.\" These characteristics control how
.\" much information is recorded on
.\" \*Vexec\*O
.\" operations.
.\" .PP
.\" The
.\" .PN auditmask
.\" command is used in
.\" .PN /etc/rc.local
.\" to initialize the auditmask at boot time according to the file
.\" .PN /etc/sec/audit_events .
This makes use of privileged operations within the
.MS audcntl 2
system call.
.PP
When specifying a process or a group of processes, 
only system calls and trusted events can be set.
Site-defined events and habitat system calls can 
only be set set for the system. 
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.\" .IP "\-f" 12
.\" Turns on full auditing for the system.  This list may include events which
.\" have no symbolic name and are represented only by a number (reserved for
.\" future use); these events will not be audited, despite their presence in
.\" the auditmask.
.IP "\*L\-a \*Vaudit_id\*O" 5
Set the audit mask for all processes that have the 
specified audit ID (\*Vaudit_id\*O).
.IP "\*L\-c \*Vcontrol_flag\*O"
Sets the value of the audit control flags for the target audit processes. The
\*L\-c\*O flag can only be used in conjunction 
with the \*L\-a\*O or the \*L\-p\*O flags.
The audit control flags are as follows:
.rS 5
.IP "\*OAUDIT_OR" 20
An audit record is generated if either the system
auditmask or the process auditmask indicate such an event should
be audited.
.IP "\*OAUDIT_AND"
An audit record is generated if both the system
auditmask and the process auditmask indicate such an event should
be audited.
.IP "\*OAUDIT_OFF"
No audit records are generated for the current process.
.IP "\*OAUDIT_USR"
An audit record gets generated if the process auditmask
indicates such an event should be audited.
.rE
.IP "\*L\-n\*O" 5
Turns off all auditing for the system.
.IP "\*L\-p \*Vpid\*O"
Set the audit mask for a single process
specified by the \*Vpid\*O.
.IP "\*L\-s \*Vaudstyle\*O" 5
Sets the audit style characteristics of the audit subsystem as follows:
.rS 5
.IP "\*Lexec_argp\*O" 15
Enables the auditing of the argument
list to an
.PN execv
or
.PN execve
system call.
.IP "\*Lexec_envp\*O" 15
Enables the auditing of the
environment strings to an
.PN execv
or
.PN execve
system call.
.IP "\*Llogin_uname\*O" 15
Enables the auditing of the username in failed
.PN login
attempts.
.rE
.IP "" 5
Specifying \*Vaudstyle\*O or \*Vaudstyle\*O:1 enables the characteristic
and specifying
\*Vaudstyle\*O:0 disables the characteristic.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Laudcntl\*O(2), \*Laudit_setup\*O(8)
.PP
\*EEnhanced Security\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
