.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: automount.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/02/01 13:36:07 $
.\"
.TH automount 8
.SH NAME
automount \- automatically and transparently mounts and unmounts NFS file systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /usr/sbin/automount
[
.B \-hmnTv
.\" v
]
[
\*V\-D name=\*O
\*Vvalue\*O
]
[
.B \-f
\*Vmaster-file\*O
]
.br
[
.B \-M
\*Vmount-directory\*O
]
[
.B \-tl
\*Vduration \*O
.\" .I sub-options
]
[
.B \-tm
\*Vinterval\*O
]
[
.B \-tw
\*Vinterval  \*O
]
.br
[
\*Vdirectory mapname\*O
[
.B \-
\*Vmount-options\*O
]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lautomount\*O
.iX "automount command"
daemon automatically and transparently mounts and
unmounts NFS file systems on an as-needed basis.
It provides an alternative to using \*L/etc/fstab\*O
.\" .iX "automount command" "/etc/fstab file"
.\" .iX "automount command" "/etc/rc.config file"
for NFS mounting file systems on client machines.
.PP
The \*Lautomount\*O daemon can be started from the \*L/etc/rc.config\*O
file or from the command line. Once started,
.\".iX "automount command" "and /etc/fstab file"
.\".iX "automount command" "and /etc/rc.config file"
it sleeps until a user attempts to access a directory that is
associated with an \*Lautomount\*O map, or any directory or file in the
directory structure. The daemon awakes and consults the
appropriate map and mounts the NFS file system. By default, the daemon mounts
the remote file system under the directory \*L/tmp_mnt\*O and creates a
symbolic link to the temporary mount point. If the
indicated directory has not already been created, the daemon creates it and
removes it after automatic \*Lunmount\*O. After a specified period of
inactivity on a file system, 5 minutes by default, the \*Lautomount\*O daemon
unmounts that file system.
.PP
The maps indicate where to find the file system to be
mounted and the mount options to use. The names of the maps are passed
to \*Lautomount\*O from the command line, or from a master map.
If the command line and the master map contain contradictory arguments, the
command line arguments take precedence.
.PP
An individual automount map is either local or served by NIS.
A system, however, can use both local and NIS automount maps.
When a map is referenced, the \*Lautomount\*O daemon checks whether a full
pathname is specified. If it is, \*Lautomount\*O looks for the designated
\*Vmapname\*O locally. If the \*Vmapname\*O is not a full pathname,
\*Lautomount\*O looks for an NIS map by that name.
.SS Maps
Conventionally, \*Lautomount\*O maps are files that are located in the
\*L/etc\*O directory with names that have the prefix \*Lauto\*O.
.iX "automount maps"
They indicate which remote file systems to mount,
where to mount them, and which options to use.
.ne 6
.SS "\f2The Master Map"
The \*Lautomount\*O program can consult a master map,
which contains entries that point to other
maps that can be either direct or indirect.  If NIS is running,
\*Lautomount\*O checks for the presence of a NIS map named \*Lauto.master\*O;
you are not required to run NIS or have an \*Lauto.master\*O
map. A master map can also be a file whose location is specified with
the \*L\-f \*O command line option.
.PP
The master map provides \*Lautomount\*O with a list of maps,
and with arguments that pertain to each of the maps.
Each line in the
master map has the following syntax:
.PP
\*Vmount-point   map  [mount-options]\*O
.PP
.IP \(bu 4
\*Vmount-point\*O \- the full pathname of a local directory if the
\*Vmap\*O
argument is the name of an indirect map or the name of a special map.
If the
\*Vmap \*O
argument is the name of a direct map, the dummy directory ``/-'' is
specified as the
\*Vmount-point.\*O
.IP \(bu 4
\*Vmap\*O \- the name of the map the automount command uses to find the mount
points and locations.  This can either be a filename, a NIS map name, or a
special map name.
.IP \(bu 4
\*Vmount-options\*O \- a list of options used to regulate the mounting of
entries listed in \*Vmap.\*O
.ne 6
.SS "\f2Direct Maps"
Direct maps specify which remote file systems to mount locally and what
the local mount points are. They also can specify mount options.
Direct maps have the following syntax:
.PP
\*Vkey   [mount-options]   location\*O
.PP
.IP \(bu 4
\*Vkey\*O -\ the full pathname of the mount point.
.IP \(bu 4
\*Vmount-options\*O -\ the options for this specific mount. When present, these
options override any mount options specified on the command line
or in the master map.
.IP \(bu 4
\*Vlocation\*O \- the location of the resource being mounted, specified as:
\*Vserver:pathname.  \*O
Multiple
\*Vlocation\*O
fields can be specified, in which case \*Lautomount\*O
sends multiple mount requests and mounts from the first server to
respond.
.ne 6
.SS "\f2Indirect Maps"
Indirect maps have the same format as direct maps.
However, unlike the key in a direct map, the key in an indirect map is a simple
name that does not begin with a slash. (Remember that
the indirect map as a whole has been associated with a directory
specified in the master map or on the command line.  The entries in an
indirect map list subdirectories that are individually mounted within
the directory associated with the map.)
.\" (the next section is commented out from the original version
.\"  of this manpage due to the fact that it seemed curiously misleading
.\".PP
.\" The maps contain entries in the following format.  While multiple locations
.\" for a particular \f2basename\f1 can be specified, they
.\"should only be used for read-only file systems.
.\".oS
.\"[\f2basename\f1 [\f2\-mount-options\f1][\f2location1\f1][\f2location2\f1]...
.\".oE
.\"The \f2basename\f1 field specifies a subdirectory within the
.\".I directory
.\"designated in the
.\"\*Lautomount\*O
.\"command line.
.\"The \f2\-mount-options\f1 tell the
.\"\*Lautomount\*O
.\"program what parameters and access restrictions apply to that mount.
.\"See mount(8) for more information.
.\".PP
.\"Each \f2location\f1 field indicates where the file system resides on
.\"the remote host, and has the following format:
.\"Maps are considered either direct or indirect depending
.\"on how the \f2basename\f1 field is specified.
.\"In a direct map the \f2basename\f1 is a full pathname.
.\"In an indirect map the \f2basename\f1 is a simple name.
.\"The rest of the required information about where the remote file system
.\"is located is provided either on the command line or in another map.
.\"The rest of the information that
.\"\*Lautomount\*O
.\"requires about
.\"the remote file system location is provided either on the command line
.\"or in another map.
.\".oS
.\"\f2host:remote-pathname[:subdirectory]
.\".oE
.\"The \f2host\f1 field specifies the remote host from which
.\"to mount the designated file system.  The \f2remote-pathname\f1 is
.\"the absolute pathname of a file system or subtree of a file system that
.\"is exported by \f2host\f1.
.\".PP
.\"If you specify more than one location for a file system, the
.\"\*Lautomount\*O
.\"program broadcasts a mount request to all specified hosts.
.\"The first to respond gets mounted.
.\".PP
.\"The \f2subdirectory\f1 field is optional.
.\"When supplied, it indicates the subdirectory within the
.\"remote file system to which you want \f2basename\f1 linked.
.\"Specifying subdirectories allows mount points to be shared.
.\"Rather than creating a symbolic link directly to the mount point,
.\"\*Lautomount\*O
.\"creates a symbolic link to the specified subdirectory.  One
.\"mount point can have multiple symbolic links to subdirectories
.\"within the mounted file system.
.ne 6
.SS "\f2Special Maps"
The \*L\-hosts\*O map is a special \*Lautomount\*O
map that is used to access all directories
exported by a server to a client.
.PP
The following command allows a client to access directories
that are exported from any host in its \*L/etc/hosts\*O
file, the NIS hosts database.
.oS
# \f(CBautomount /net \-hosts\f(CW
.oE
.iX "automount maps" "and Network Information Service"
.PP
For example, suppose that \*Lhera\*O and \*Lsheba\*O
are both hosts on a
local area network that is running NIS.
If superuser on \*Lhera\*O enters the
\*Lautomount /net \-hosts\*O command, users on
\*Lhera\*O can access any directories that \*Lsheba\*O exports to
\*Lhera\*O. All of the exported directories are mounted under
\*L/net/sheba\*O on \*Lhera\*O.
.PP
The \*L\-null\*O map, when indicated on the command
line, cancels the map associated with
the directory indicated.  It can be used to cancel a map specified in the
master map.  For example, invoking the \*Lautomount\*O
command in the following manner causes the \*L/net\*O
entry in \*Lauto.master\*O to be ignored:
.oS
# \f(CBautomount /net \-null\f(CW
.oE
.SS Pattern Matching
The ampersand (&)
is expanded into the key field in
a map wherever it appears.  In the following example,
the ampersand (&) expands to \*Loak\*O:
.oS
#key      mount_options      location
#
oak                           &:/export/&
.oE
.PP
The asterisk (*), when supplied as the key field, is recognized as the
catch-all entry.  It is used to substitute for lines that are all
formatted similarly.
Any entry following the asterisk is ignored.
In the following example, the \*Lautomount\*O
program uses the asterisk to match any hostname other than \*Loak\*O:
.oS
#key         mount_options        location
#
oak                               &:/export/&
*                                 &:/home/&
.oE
.SS Environment Variables
The value of an environment variable can be used within an automount map
by prefixing a dollar sign ($) to its name.  You can also use braces to
delimit the name of the variable from appended letters or digits.
The environment variables can be
inherited from the environment or can be explicitly defined with
the \*L\-D\*O command line option.
.SS Multiple Mounts
A multiple mount entry causes several NFS mount points to be mounted and
unmounted together. Multiple mounts have the following syntax:
.PP
\*Vkey  mountpoint   [mount-options]   location... [mountpoint  [mount-options]  location...] ...\*O
.PP
.IP \(bu 4
\*Vkey\*O \- the full pathname or simple name of the mount point, depending on
whether it is a direct or indirect map entry.
.IP \(bu 4
\*Vmountpoint\*O \- the full pathname of a local directory. All mountpoints
must begin with a slash (/). A slash is acceptable as the first
\*Vmountpoint\*O.
.IP \(bu 4
\*Vmount-options\*O \- the options for this specific mount. When present, these
options override any mount options specified on the command line
or in the master map.
.IP \(bu 4
\*Vlocation\*O \- the location of the resource being mounted, specified as:
\*Vserver:pathname.\*O
Multiple
\*Vlocation\*O
fields can be specified, in which case \*Lautomount\*O
sends multiple mount requests and mounts from the first server to
respond.
.PP
If multiple mounts are hierarchically related, the order in which they appear
in the entry is the order in which they are mounted.
.PP
In the following example, the directories \*L/usr/local\*O,
\*L/usr/local/bin\*O, \*L/usr/local/src\*O, and \*L/usr/local/tools\*O
are mounted from the machines host1, host2, host3, and host4
respectively.  When the root of the hierarchy is referenced,
the \*Lautomount\*O program mounts the whole hierarchy.
.PP
.oS
/usr/local \e
 /         -ro       host1:/usr/local \e
 /bin      -ro       host2:/usr/local/bin \e
 /src      -ro       host3:/usr/local/src \e
 /tools    -ro       host4:/usr/src/tools
.oE
.PP
Readability has been improved by splitting the entry into five
lines and indenting the continuation lines.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.iX "automount command" "options"
.IP \-h 10
Includes hostname in mount point path names.  Hostname is inserted just
after the
\*Vmount-directory\*O
in a mount point path name.  This insures that
NFS mount points to different servers are placed in separate directories.  This
avoids a limitation of \*Lgetwd\*O(3).
.\"  When computing the pathname
.\"string, \*Lgetwd\*O(3) moves up the tree from the current working directory
.\"to the root.  When getwd passes through a mount point, it will \*Lstat\*O(2)
.\"entries in the directory until it finds the mount point it just
.\"traversed.  If these other entries are mount points to a server that
.\"is hard mounted and down, the getwd will block until the down server
.\"responds.  This side effect can be avoided by forcing the automounter
.\"to place mount points to different servers in separate directories
.\"with the -h option.
.IP \-m 10
Ignores directory-mapname pairs listed in the \*Lauto.master\*O
NIS database.
.IP \-n 10
Disables dynamic mounts.  Lookups intercepted by the \*Lautomount\*O
daemon succeed only when the target file system has been previously
mounted.
.IP \-T 10
Traces all NFS requests received by the daemon.  Information about
the details of the request are expanded and sent to standard output.
.IP \-v 10
Logs status messages to the console.  (Stands for ``verbose.'')
.IP "\-D \f2name\f1=\f2value\f1" 10
Defines an \*Lautomount\*O environment variable by assigning
\*Vvalue\*O
to the
variable.
.\".I  name
.\"and assigns it the value
.\".I value
.\"to be used in
.\"\*Lautomount\*O
.\"maps.
.IP "\-f \f2master-file\f1" 10
Uses \f2master-file\f1
for a list of initial directory to mapname pairs, ahead of the
\*Lauto.master\*O NIS map.  If an entry exists in both
\*Vmaster-file\*O
and \*Lauto.master\*O, that specified in
\*Vmaster-file\*O
is used since it is read first.  Similarly, entries on the
command line take precedence over
\*Vmaster-file\*O
entries.  This technique can be used to replace entries in
global maps with your own.
.IP "\-M \f2mount-directory\f1" 10
Uses
\*Vmount-directory \*O
instead of the default, \*L/tmp_mnt\*O.
.IP "\-tl \f2duration\f1" 10
Specifies a
\*Vduration\*O
in seconds, that a file system is to remain mounted when not in use.
The default is 5 minutes.
.IP "\-tm \f2interval\f1" 10
Specifies an
\*Vinterval\*O
in seconds, between attempts to mount a file system. The default
is 30 seconds.
.IP "\-tw \f2interval\f1" 10
Specifies an
\*Vinterval\*O
in seconds, between attempts to unmount file systems that have exceeded
their cached times. The default is 1 minute.
.\".IP "-t \f2sub-options\f1" 10
.\"Specify the NFS mount options.  All mount options
.\"apply except background
.\"\*L(bg)\*O
.\"and foreground (
.\"\*L(fg)\*O.
.\".IP "\f2directory\f1" 10
.\"Specifies the mount point for
.\"\*Lautomount\*O
.\"itself.
.\".I Directory
.\"is an absolute pathname starting with a slash ( / ).  If the
.\"directory does not exist, it is created by the
.\"\*Lautomount\*O
.\"daemon and is removed when the daemon exits.
.\".IP "\f2mapname\f1" 10
.\"Specifies the name of the map file that
.\"\*Lautomount\*O
.\"is searching for.  The
.\"\*Lautomount\*O
.\"command first searches locally for a file called
.\".I mapname.
.\"If the file does not exist,
.\"\*Lautomount\*O
.\"looks for a NIS map called
.\".I mapname.
.IP \f2\-mount_options\f1 10
Specifies the mount options to be applied to all of the directories listed
in
\*Vmapname.  \*O
If mount options are listed in the specified map, they take precedence
over these options.
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.RS 5
Sending the SIGTERM signal to the \*Lautomount\*O
daemon causes it to unmount all file systems that it has
mounted, and to exit.
.sp
Sending the SIGHUP signal to the \*Lautomount\*O
daemon causes it to reread the system mount table to update its internal
record of currently mounted file systems.  If a file system mounted
with \*Lautomount\*O is unmounted by a \*Lumount\*O command,
\*Lautomount\*O should be forced to reread the system mount table.
.sp 6p
.RE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Shell filename expansion does not apply to objects not currently
mounted.
.PP
Because \*Lautomount\*O is single-threaded, any request
that is delayed by a slow or
non-responding NFS server will delay all subsequent \*Lautomount\*O
requests
until the delayed request has been completed.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following is a sample \*Lauto.master\*O map:
.oS
#
# mount-point           mapname           mount-options
#
/net                    -hosts
/home                   auto.indirect     -rw
/-                      auto.direct       -ro,intr
.oE
The following is a typical \*Lautomount\*O indirect map:
.oS
#
# key               mount-options         location
#
john                                      merge:/usr/staff/john
mary                                      stripe:/usr/staff/mary
fred                                      blur:/usr/staff/fred
.oE
The following is a typical \*Lautomount\*O direct map:
.oS
#
# key               mount-options         location
#
/usr/source         -ro                   merge:/usr/src/proto
/usr/local                                blur:/usr/bin/tools
.oE
The following is a sample indirect map that specifies multiple
mount locations for the file system \*Lreference\*O.
The file system is mounted from the first server to respond to
the \*Lmount\*O request.
.oS
reference           \-ro            earl:/usr/src/ref\e
                                   fern:/usr/staff/ron/ref\e
                                   irv:/usr/backup/reference
.oE
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 15
\*L/tmp_mnt\*O
Directory where automounted file systems reside
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lmount\*O(8), \*Lumount\*O(8)
.br
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
.br
\*ENetwork Administration and Problem Solving\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
