.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH autopush 8
.SH "NAME"
.PP
\*Lautopush\*O - Manages the system's database of automatically pushed STREAMS modules
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/autopush -f \*Vfile\*O
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/autopush -r -M \*Vmajor\*L -m\*V minor\*O
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/autopush -g -M \*Vmajor\*L -m\*V minor\*O
.sE
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "FLAGS"
.PP
.VL 3m
.LI "\*L\-f \*Vfile\*O"
Sets up the system database that contains the lists of modules to be
automatically pushed on the streams for STREAMS devices.
The \*Vfile\*O argument specifies the system file from which the
command will copy this configuration information.
The \*L\-f\*O flag is also used to place a device's configuration
information back into the database.
.LI "\*L\-g -M \*Vmajor \*L\-m \*Vminor\*O"
Gets the configuration information in the system database
for the STREAMS major and minor device or devices
specified by the \*L\-M\*O and \*L\-m\*O flags.
.LI "\*L\-r -M \*Vmajor \*L\-m \*Vminor\*O"
Removes the configuration information in the system's database for
the STREAMS major and minor device or devices specified
by the \*L\-M\*O and \*L\-m\*O flags.
.LE
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "autopush command"
.iX "STREAMS automatic configuration"
The \*Lautopush\*O command manages the system's database of information for
the automatic configuration of STREAMS devices.
The \*Lautopush\*O command's flags are mutually exclusive.
.PP
The command initializes the database with the names of the STREAMS devices
to be automatically configured and a list of modules to use for each device
(\*L\-f\*O flag).
When a device is subsequently opened, the STREAMS subsystem pushes
the modules on the stream for the device.
The \*Lautopush\*O command also displays the current configuration
information for a device in the database (\*L\-g\*O flag),
removes the information for a device from the database (\*L\-r\*O
flag), and replaces the information that has previously been removed
(\*L\-f\*O flag).
When the \*L\-f\*O flag is used to replace information in the database,
the entire contents of the configuration file are copied.
Also, the \*L\-r\*O flag only removes information temporarily,
because it acts on the database.
To permanently exclude a STREAMS device from the database,
you must remove its information from the configuration file.
.PP
A device stream can be automatically constructed for a STREAMS major device,
a major device and any associated minor devices,
or just the minor devices, depending on the information in the
configuration file.
DEC OSF/1
provides the \*Lautopush.conf\*O file for use as a configuration file.
You can use another file as long as the information in the file is written
in the correct format.
The \*Lautopush.conf\*O file contains one-line entries for each
of the STREAMS devices that are to be automatically configured in the system.
A line contains at least four fields:
.VL 4.5m
.LI "\*Vmajor\*O"
Contains an integer representing the STREAMS device's major device.
.LI "\*Vminor\*O"
Contains an integer representing one or more minor
devices associated with the major device.  If \*Vminor\*O has a value of
-1, then all the minor devices of the
driver specified by \*Vmajor\*O are given the same \*Lautopush\*O
configuration.
.LI "\*Vlast_minor\*O"
Contains an integer representing the last
minor device in a range associated with the major device.  If
\*Vlast_minor\*O has a value of 0 (zero), then the major device has
only a single minor device for which the same stream must be constructed.
.LI "\*Vmodule\*O"
Contains the name of the module to be automatically pushed onto the
stream.
There can be multiple \*Vmodule\*O name fields, up to a maximum of
eight, separated by spaces or commas.
.sp 0.4v
The \*Lautopush\*O command pushes modules in the order in which they
are listed.
This means that the first \*Vmodule\*O named is positioned
just above the STREAMS device driver.
.LE
.PP
The configuration file can also contain comment lines, which begin with #
(number sign) and end with newline.
.PP
If the \*Vmajor\*O and \*Vminor\*O arguments specified by the \*L\-M\*O
and \*L\-m\*O flags of the \*L\-r\*O flag option designate
a range of minor devices, and \*Vminor\*O matches the first minor device number
in the range, then the \*Lautopush\*O command removes the
configuration information for all of
the minor devices of the major device.
.PP
If the \*Vmajor\*O and \*Vminor\*O arguments specified by the \*L\-M\*O
and \*L\-m\*O flags of the \*L\-g\*O flag option
are set for a range in the configuration file,
the \*Lautopush\*O command returns the configuration information for the
first minor device number, in addition to the other information.
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
.AL
.LI
To set up the automatic configuration information for the STREAMS devices in
the system, enter:
.sp 0.4v
.iS
autopush -f  /etc/autopush.conf
.iE
.LI
To obtain information about the stream for major device
\*L28\*O and its minor device \*L\-2\*O, enter:
.iS
autopush -g -M 28 -m -2
.iE
.LE
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "FILES"
.PP
.VL 10m
.LI "\*L/etc/autopush.conf\*O"
Specifies the modules to be pushed onto the streams for STREAMS devices.
.LE
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
.\".ad l
Interfaces: \*Lstreamio(7)\*O.
.iX "streamio interface"
.\".ad b
.EQ
delim off
.EN
