.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: bindsetup.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/11/02 15:24:54 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)bindsetup.8 9.1 4/15/91
.\"
.TH bindsetup 8
.SH NAME
bindsetup \- set up the Berkeley Internet Name Domain (BIND) service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /usr/sbin/bindsetup
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "bindsetup command"
.iX "BIND environment" "setting up"
The
\*Lbindsetup\*O
command sets up the Berkeley Internet Name Domain (BIND)
service on your system and places
\*Lhosts\*O
resolution under BIND control.
You can use this command to set up your system as a primary,
secondary, slave, or caching server,
or as a client.
.PP
In order to run BIND, your system's host name must
include the BIND domain name.  The BIND host name consists
of the local host name plus the BIND domain name, separated by
periods.  For example, the BIND host name for a system whose
local host name is \*Lorange\*O, and whose BIND domain name is
\*Lcol.ecd.com\*O is \*Lorange.col.ecd.com\*O.
.PP
When you are using the \*Lbindsetup\*O
command to configure BIND on your system for the first
time, it edits the \*L/etc/hosts\*O and
\*L/etc/rc.config\*O files and changes the local host name to the
BIND host name.
.PP
If the
\*Lbindsetup\*O
command changes your system's host name, you
should reboot the system to be sure that the change is propagated throughout
the system.
.PP
Before you run
\*Lbindsetup\*O,
your system must be established on a local area network.
In addition,
you must know the BIND domain name for your local area network, and
whether your system will be a primary, secondary, slave,
or caching server, or a client.
.PP
If you are setting up your system as a client or a secondary or a slave server,
you must know the name of the host that is serving as either the primary or
secondary server. If you specify the fully qualified name of the server,
you must include a trailing dot (.). For more information, see the guide
to
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O.
.PP
You should run the
\*Lbindsetup\*O
command as superuser and with the system in multiuser mode.
.PP
When you run
\*Lbindsetup\*O
a menu is displayed giving you a choice of responses.
You are then prompted for further information.
Before
\*Lbindsetup\*O
exits,
it lists the files that have been updated.
.PP
Once BIND is installed on a system, it cannot be used until
the
\*L/etc/svc.conf \*O
file is modified to indicate that BIND is being used to serve
\*Lhosts\*O
information.  The
\*Lbindsetup\*O
command allows you to edit the
\*L/etc/svc.conf\*O
file by giving you the option of calling the
\*L/usr/sbin/svcsetup\*O
script from within it.  If you do not edit the
\*L/etc/svc.conf\*O
file from within
\*Lbindsetup \*O
you must edit it by invoking the
\*Lsvcsetup\*O
script from the command line, or manually.
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 20
\*L/etc/hosts \*O
List of locally maintained host names and IP addresses
.TP 20
\*L/etc/svc.conf \*O
Database name with the selected naming services
.PP
Default BIND Files:
.PP
.TP 20
\*L/etc/namedb \*O
BIND server data file directory
.TP 20
\*L/etc/namedb/named.boot \*O
BIND server boot file
.TP 20
\*L/etc/namedb/named.ca \*O
BIND server cache file
.TP 20
\*L/etc/namedb/named.local \*O
BIND server local host reverse address host file
.TP 20
\*L/etc/namedb/hosts.db \*O
BIND primary server hosts file
.TP 20
\*L/etc/namedb/hosts.rev \*O
BIND primary server reverse address hosts file
.TP 20
\*L/etc/resolv.conf \*O
BIND data file
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lresolv.conf\*O(4), \*Lsvc.conf\*O(4), \*Lnamed\*O(8), \*Lnslookup\*O(8),
\*Lsvcsetup\*O(8)
.br
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
