.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: binlogd.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/01 16:34:43 $
.\"
.\"
.TH binlogd 8
.SH NAME
\*Lbinlogd\*O \- Binary event log daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/binlogd\*O [\*L-d\*O]  [\*L-f\*O \*Vconfig_file\*O]
.sE
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "binlogd daemon"
.iX "binary event log daemon"
.PP
The \*Lbinlogd\*O daemon logs binary event records
to the files
specified in the \*L/etc/binlog.conf\*O configuration file.  You must
use the \*Luerf\*O command to examine the files.
.PP
Each binary event record includes an event class and priority
code, which are described in \*L/usr/sys/include/dec/binlog.h\*O.
The \*Lbinlogd\*O
reads from the \*L/bin/kbinlog\*O special device and from the Internet
domain socket specified in the \*L/etc/services\*O file.
The \*Lbinlogd\*O daemon configures when it starts up and when it
receives a hangup signal.
.PP
The \*L/etc/binlog.conf\*O file
contains entries that specify the event class, the severity
level, and the destination to which the \*Lbinlogd\*O
daemon sends the messages.  Each line of the
\*L/etc/binlog.conf\*O file contains an entry.
.PP
The event class and the severity level are separated by a period (.).
The event class and severity level are separated from the destination
by one or more tabs.
Blank lines and lines beginning with a \*L#\*O (number sign) are ignored.
.PP
If you specify an asterisk (*) for an event class or severity level,
all event classes or all severity levels are selected.  The event class
is specified as a decimal number.  The available class codes are
specified in \*L/usr/sys/include/dec/binlogd.h\*O and are as follows:
.PD 0
.sp
.RS 14
.IP "Hardware-Related Events" 6
.sp
.IP 100
CPU machine checks and exceptions
.IP 101
Memory
.IP 102
Disks
.IP 103
Tapes
.IP 104
Device controllers
.IP 105
Adapters
.IP 106
Buses
.IP 107
Stray interrupts
.IP 108
Console events
.IP 109
Stack dumps
.IP 199
SCSI CAM events
.sp
.IP "Software-Detected Events"
.sp
.IP 201
CI port-to-port driver events
.IP 202
System communications services events
.sp
.IP "Informational ASCII Messages"
.sp
.IP 250
Generic ASCII informational messages
.sp
.IP "Operational Events"
.sp
.IP 300
ASCII startup messages
.IP 301
ASCII shutdown messages
.IP 302
Panic messages
.IP 310
Time-stamp
.IP 350
Diagnostic status messages
.IP 351
Repair and maintenance messages
.PD
.RE
.PP
You can specify the following severity levels:
.IP \*Lsevere\*O
Specifies events that cannot be recovered and that are usually fatal to
system operation.
.IP \*Lhigh\*O
Specifies events that either can be recovered or cannot be recovered
but are not fatal to system operation.
.IP \*Llow\*O
Specifies informational messages.
.PP
The destination for the messages can be either the full pathname of a
local file or the name of a remote system.
The remote host must be known to the system.  You specify a remote system as
follows:
.sS
\*L@\*O\*Vhost\*O
.sE
.PP
You can specify \*Ldumpfile\*O instead of an event class and severity
level to identify the pathname of the file that will contain the kernel
binary event log buffer, which the \*Lsavecore\*O command recovers from
a system dump.
.PP
The default \*L/etc/binlog.conf\*O file causes the \*Lbinlogd\*O daemon
to create a binary event log file for all event classes and severity
levels and specifies the binary crash dump file.
The following is an example of the default \*L/etc/binlog.conf\*O file:
.oS
*.* /usr/adm/binary.errlog
dumpfile /usr/adm/crash/binlogdumpfile
.oE
The \*Lbinlogd\*O daemon also creates the \*L/var/run/binlogd.pid\*O, if
possible.  The file contains a line that specifies the \*Lbinlogd\*O
daemon's process identification number.   Use this number to disable or
reconfigure the \*Lbinlogd\*O daemon.  To disable the \*Lbinlogd\*O
daemon, send the process a SIGTERM signal.  For example:
.oS
kill -TERM `cat /var/run/binlogd.pid`
.oE
To reconfigure the \*Lbinlogd\*O daemon, send the process a SIGHUP
signal to cause it to read the configuration file again.  For example:
.oS
kill -HUP `cat /var/run/binlogd.pid`
.oE
Processes on the local system also can connect to the \*Lbinlogd\*O
daemon by using a local known socket (\*L/dev/binlogdmb\*O); this is
referred to as a "mailbox."  When the "mailbox" connection is
established, the connected process receives the binary event records
that the \*Lbinlogd\*O processes.  The \*Llibbinlog.a\*O library
provides a set of routines that make using the "mailbox" easy.  Refer
to the descriptions in \*L/usr/sys/include/dec/binlog.h\*O for
information on using the
"mailbox" programming interface.  The \*Luerf\*O command with the
\*L-n\*O option utilizes the \*Lbinlogd\*O "mailbox."
.SS "Examining the Error Log Files"
Use the \*Luerf\*O command to translate the binary event log file to
ASCII text.  The \*Luerf\*O command uses the file name destination
for the \*L*.*\*O entry in the \*L/etc/binlog.conf\*O as the default
binary event log file.  If there is no \*L*.*\*O entry or if you do not
want to use the default file, use the \*Luerf\*O command with the
\*L-f\*O \*Vfilename\*O option to specify the binary event log file.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-d\*O"
Enables debugging.
.LI "\*L-f\*O \*Vconfig_file\*O"
Specifies the alternate binary configuration file.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/binlogd\*O"
Command path
.LI "\*L/etc/binlog.conf\*O"
Binary configuration file
.LI "\*L/var/run/binlogd.pid\*O"
Process identification number
.LI "\*L/dev/binlogdmb\*O"
Name of the "mailbox" socket
.LI "\*L/dev/kbinlog\*O"
Kernel log device
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Llogger\*O(1), \*Lsavecore\*O(8), \*Luerf\*O(8)
.PP
\*ESystem Administration\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
