.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: bootpd.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/04/01 19:21:39 $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1989 Carnegie Mellon University
.\"
.\"
.TH bootpd 8
.SH NAME
\*Lbootpd\*O, \*Lbootptab\*O, \*Lbootp\*O \- Internet Boot Protocol server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/bootpd\*O [ \*L\-s \-t\*Vtimeout\*O \*L\-d\*O ]
[ \*Vconfigfile\*O [ \*Vdumpfile\*O ] ]
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-d\*O"
Specifies the level of debugging output.  The level is increased for
each instance of \*L\-d\*O.
.LI "\*L\-s\*O"
Calls for \*Lbootpd\*O to be run in standalone mode.
.LI "\*L\-t\*O"
Specifies a different timeout value in minutes.  It has no effect if the
\*L\-s\*O flag is used.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "bootpd"
.iX "bootp protocol"
.iX "Internet Boot Protocol server"
.iX "server" "Internet Boot Protocol"
The \*Lbootpd\*O daemon
implements an Internet Boot Protocol server as defined in RFC951
and RFC1048.  It is normally run by \*L/usr/sbin/inetd\*O
by including the following line in the file \*L/etc/inetd.conf\*O:
.PP
\*Lbootps dgram udp wait root /usr/sbin/bootpd bootpd\*O
.PP
This causes \*Lbootpd\*O to be started only when a boot request arrives.  If
\*Lbootpd\*O
does not receive another boot request within fifteen minutes of the last one
it received, it will exit to conserve system resources.  The \*L\-t\*O
flag can be used to specify a different timeout value in minutes (for
example, \-t20).  A timeout value of zero means forever.
.PP
It is also possible to run \*Lbootpd\*O in a standalone configuration
using the \*L\-s\*O flag.
This is usually the desired mode of operation for large network installations
with many \*Lbootpd\*O clients.  In this case, the \*L\-t\*O
flag has no effect since \*Lbootpd\*O will never exit.
.PP
Each instance of the \*L\-d\*O flag increases the level of debugging output.
.PP
To run the \*Lbootpd\*O daemon, you must also run the \*Ltftpd\*O daemon.
.PP
.iX "bootptab file"
.iX "bootp configuration file"
Upon startup, \*Lbootpd\*O first reads its configuration file,
\*L/etc/bootptab\*O,
and then begins listening for BOOTREQUEST packets.  The configuration file
has a format similar to that of \*Ltermcap\*O(4)
in which two-character case-sensitive tag symbols are used to
represent host parameters.  These parameter declarations are separated by
colons (:).  The general format is:
.PP
\*V hostname:tg=value. . . :tg=value. . . :tg=value. . . .\*O
.PP
The \*Vhostname\*O is the actual name of a bootp client; \*Vtg\*O
is a two-character tag symbol.  Most tags must be followed by an equals-sign
and a value as above.  Some may also appear in a boolean form with no
value (that is, \*L:\*Vtg\*L:\*O).
The currently recognized tags are:
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lbf\*O"
Bootfile
.LI "\*Lbs\*O"
Bootfile size in 512-octet blocks
.LI "\*Lcs\*O"
Cookie server address list
.LI "\*Lds\*O"
Domain name server address list
.LI "\*Lgw\*O"
Gateway address list
.LI "\*Lha\*O"
Host hardware address
.LI "\*Lhd\*O"
Bootfile home directory
.LI "\*Lhn\*O"
Send hostname
.LI "\*Lht\*O"
Host hardware type (see Assigned Numbers RFC)
.LI "\*Lim\*O"
Impress server address list
.LI "\*Lip\*O"
Host IP address
.LI "\*Llg\*O"
Log server address list
.LI "\*Llp\*O"
LPR server address list
.LI "\*Lns\*O"
IEN-116 name server address list
.LI "\*Lrl\*O"
Resource location protocol server address list
.LI "\*Lsm\*O"
Host subnet mask
.LI "\*Ltc\*O"
Table continuation (points to similar "template" host entry)
.LI "\*Lto\*O"
Time offset in seconds from UTC
.LI "\*Lts\*O"
Time server address list
.LI "\*Lvm\*O"
Vendor magic cookie selector
.LE
.PP
There is also a generic tag, \*LT\*Vn\*O, where \*Vn\*O
is an RFC1048 vendor field tag number.  Thus it is possible to immediately
take advantage of future extensions to RFC1048 without being forced to modify
\*Vbootpd\*O
first.  Generic data may be represented as either a stream of hexadecimal
numbers or as a quoted string of ASCII characters.  The length of the generic
data is automatically determined and inserted into the proper field(s) of the
RFC1048-style bootp reply.
.PP
The following tags take a whitespace-separated list of IP addresses:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lcs\*O"
.LI "\*Lds\*O"
.LI "\*Lgw\*O"
.LI "\*Lim\*O"
.LI "\*Llg\*O"
.LI "\*Llp\*O"
.LI "\*Lns\*O"
.LI "\*Lrl\*O"
.LI "\*Lts\*O"
.LE
.PP
The \*Lip\*O and \*Lsm\*O tags each take a single IP address.
All IP addresses are specified in standard Internet "dot" notation and may use
decimal, octal, or hexadecimal numbers (octal numbers begin with 0,
hexadecimal numbers begin with '0x' or '0X').
.PP
The \*Lht\*O
tag specifies the hardware type code as either an unsigned decimal, octal, or
hexadecimal integer or one of the following symbolic names: \*Lethernet\*O
or \*Lether\*O for 10Mb Ethernet; \*Lethernet3\*O or \*Lether3\*O
for 3Mb experimental Ethernet; \*Lieee802\*O, \*Ltr\*O, or \*Ltoken-ring\*O
for IEEE 802 networks; \*Lpronet\*O for Proteon ProNET Token Ring or
\*Lchaos\*O, \*Larcnet\*O, or \*Lax.25\*O
for Chaos, ARCNET, and AX.25 Amateur Radio networks, respectively.
The \*Lha\*O tag takes a hardware address which \*Vmust\*O
be specified in hexadecimal; optional periods and/or a leading '0x' may be
included for readability.  The \*Lha\*O tag must be preceded by the \*Lht\*O
tag (either explicitly or implicitly; see \*Ltc\*O below).
.PP
The hostname, home directory, and bootfile are ASCII strings which may be
optionally surrounded by double quotation marks (").  The client's request
and the values of the \*Lhd\*O and \*Lbf\*O
symbols determine how the server fills in the bootfile field of the bootp
reply packet.
.PP
If the client specifies an absolute pathname and that file exists on the
server machine, that pathname is returned in the reply packet.  If the file
cannot be found, the request is discarded; no reply is sent.  If the client
specifies a relative pathname, a full pathname is formed by prepending the
value of the \*Lhd\*O tag and testing for existence of the file.  If the
\*Lhd\*O tag is not supplied in the configuration file or if the
resulting boot file cannot be found, then the request is discarded.
.PP
Clients which specify null boot files will always elicit a reply from the
server.  The exact reply will again depend upon the \*Lhd\*O and \*Lbf\*O
tags.  If the \*Lbf\*O tag gives an absolute pathname and the file exists,
that pathname is returned in the reply packet.  Otherwise, if the
\*Lhd\*O and \*Lbf\*O
tags together specify an accessible file, that filename is returned in the
reply.  If a complete filename cannot be determined or the file does not
exist, the reply will contain a zeroed-out bootfile field.
.PP
In all these cases, existence of the file means that, in addition to actually
being present, the file must have its public read access bit set, since this
is required by \*Ltftpd\*O(8) to permit the file transfer.
(For other \*Ltftpd\*O file access restrictions
see the \*Ltftpd\*O(8) reference page.) Also, all filenames are first tried as
\*Vfilename.hostname\*O
and then simply as \*Vfilename\*O,
thus providing for individual per-host bootfiles.
.PP
The time offset \*Lto\*O
may be either a signed decimal integer specifying the client's
time zone offset in seconds from UTC, or the keyword \*Lauto\*O
which uses the server's time zone offset.  Specifying the \*Lto\*O
symbol as a boolean has the same effect as specifying \*Lauto\*O
as its value.
.PP
The bootfile size \*Lbs\*O may be either a decimal, octal, or hexadecimal
integer specifying the size of the bootfile in 512-octet blocks, or the
keyword \*Lauto\*O which causes the server to automatically calculate
the bootfile size at each request.  As with the time offset, specifying
the \*Lbs\*O symbol as a boolean has the same effect as specifying
\*Lauto\*O as its value.
.PP
The vendor magic cookie selector (the \*Lvm\*O tag) may take one of the
following keywords:
.VL 10m
.LI "\*Lauto\*O"
Indicates that vendor information is determined by the client's request.
.LI "\*Lrfc1048\*O"
Always forces an RFC1048-style reply.
.LI "\*Lcmu\*O"
Always forces a CMU-style reply.
.LE
.PP
The \*Lhn\*O tag is strictly a boolean tag;
it does not take the usual equals-sign and
value.  It's presence indicates that the hostname should be sent to RFC1048
clients.  The \*Lbootpd\*O daemon
attempts to send the entire hostname as it is specified in the configuration
file; if this will not fit into the reply packet, the name is shortened to
just the host field (up to the first period, if present) and then tried.
In no case is an arbitrarily-truncated hostname sent (if nothing reasonable
will fit, nothing is sent).
.PP
Often, many host entries share common values for certain tags (such as name
servers, etc.).  Rather than repeatedly specifying these tags, a full
specification can be listed for one host entry and shared by others via the
\*Ltc\*O (table continuation) mechanism.
Often, the template entry is a dummy host which doesn't actually exist and
never sends bootp requests.  This feature is similar to the \*Ltc\*O
feature of \*Ltermcap\*O(4) for similar terminals.  Note that
\*Lbootpd\*O allows the \*Ltc\*O
tag symbol to appear anywhere in the host entry, unlike \*Vtermcap\*O,
which requires it to be the last tag.  Information explicitly specified for a
host always overrides information implied by a \*Ltc\*O
tag symbol, regardless of its location within the entry.  The
value of the \*Ltc\*O tag may be the hostname or IP address of any host entry
previously listed in the configuration file.
.PP
Sometimes it is necessary to delete a specific tag after it has been inferred
via \*Ltc\*O.  This can be done using the construction \*Vtag\*L@\*O
which removes the effect of \*Vtag\*O as in \*Ltermcap\*O(4).
For example, to completely undo an IEN-116 name server specification, use
"\*L:ns@:\*O" at an appropriate place in the configuration entry.
After removal with \*L@\*O, a tag is eligible to be set again through the
\*Ltc\*O mechanism.
.PP
Blank lines and lines beginning with "#" are ignored in the configuration
file.  Host entries are separated from one another by newlines; a single host
entry may be extended over multiple lines if the lines end with a backslash
(\\).  It is also acceptable for lines to be longer than 80 characters.  Tags
may appear in any order, with the following exceptions:  the hostname must be
the very first field in an entry, and the hardware type must precede the
hardware address.
.PP
A sample \*L/etc/bootptab\*O file follows:
.oS
# Sample bootpd file

default1:\\
:hd=/usr/boot:bf=null:\\
:ds=128.2.35.50 128.2.13.21:\\
:ns=0x80020b4d 0x80020ffd:\\
:ts=0x80020b4d 0x80020ffd:\\
:sm=255.255.0.0:gw=0x8002fe24:\\
:hn:vm=auto:to=-18000:\\
:T37=0x12345927AD3BCF:T99="Special ASCII string":

carnegie:ht=6:ha=7FF8100000AF:ip=128.2.11.1:tc=default1:

baldwin:ht=1:ha=0800200159C3:ip=128.2.11.10:tc=default1:

wylie:ht=1:ha=00DD00CADF00:ip=128.2.11.100:tc=default1:

arnold:ht=1:ha=0800200102AD:ip=128.2.11.102:tc=default1:

bairdford:ht=1:ha=08002B02A2F9:ip=128.2.11.103:tc=default1:

bakerstown:ht=1:ha=08002B0287C8:ip=128.2.11.104:tc=default1:


# Special domain name server for next host

bojct:ht=1:ha=08002001560D:ip=128.2.11.108:ds=128.2.13.42:tc=default1:


gastonville:ht=6:ha=7FFF81000A47:ip=128.2.11.115:tc=default1:

hahntown:ht=6:ha=7FFF81000434:ip=128.2.11.117:tc=default1:

hickman:ht=6:ha=7FFF810001BA:ip=128.2.11.118:tc=default1:

lowber:ht=1:ha=00DD00CAF000:ip=128.2.11.121:tc=default1:

mtoliver:ht=1:ha=00DD00FE1600:ip=128.2.11.122:tc=default1:
.oE
.PP
The \*Lbootpd\*O daemon looks in \*L/etc/services\*O
to find the port numbers it should use.  Two entries are extracted:
.VL 10m
.LI "\*Lbootps\*O"
The bootp server listening port
.LI "\*Lbootpc\*O"
The destination port used to reply to clients.
.LE
If the port numbers cannot be determined this way, they are assumed
to be 67 for the server and 68 for the client.
.PP
The \*Lbootpd\*O daemon
rereads its configuration file when it receives a hangup signal, SIGHUP, or
when it receives a bootp request packet and detects that the file has been
updated. Hosts can be added, deleted or modified when the configuration file
is reread.  If \*Lbootpd\*O
is compiled with the -DDEBUG option, receipt of a SIGUSR1 signal causes it
to dump its memory-resident database to the file \*L/etc/bootpd.dump\*O
or the command-line-specified dumpfile.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Individual host entries must not exceed 1024 characters.
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/etc/bootptab\*O
.br
\*L/etc/bootpd.dump\*O
.br
\*L/etc/services\*O
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Ltftpd\*O(8), \*Linetd\*O(8)
.PP
DARPA Internet Request For Comments RFC951, RFC1048, RFC1084, Assigned Numbers
.EQ
delim off
.EN
