.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: catman.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/13 20:55:51 $
.\"
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH catman 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lcatman\*O \- Creates formatted reference pages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/catman\*O [ \*L-M\*V pathname\*O ] [ \*L-npw\*O ] [ \*Vsection\*O ... ]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lcatman\*O command creates formatted versions of the online
reference pages from the \*Lnroff\*O source files.
.gL "reference page"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-M\*O \*Vpathname\*O"
Updates reference pages located in the set of directories specified by
\*Vpathname\*O (\*L/usr/share/man\*O by default).  The \*Vpathname\*O
argument has the form of a colon-separated list of directory names.
For example:
.iS
/usr/local/man:/usr/share/man
.iE
.IP
If the environment variable \*LMANPATH\*O is set, its value is used for the
default path.
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Prevents creation of the \*Lwhatis\*O database.
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Displays what would be done instead of doing it.
.LI "\*L-w\*O"
Causes only the \*Lwhatis\*O database to be created.  No reformatting is done.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "catman command"
.iX "creating" "formatted reference pages"
.iX "reference pages" "formatted"
.iX "formatted reference pages"
When \*Lcatman\*O is invoked,
each reference page is examined and those whose preformatted versions are
missing or out of date are recreated by \*Lnroff\*O using the \*L-man\*O
macro package.  See \*Lman\*O(5).
If any changes are made, \*Lcatman\*O recreates the \*Lwhatis\*O database
in the appropriate \&.\&.\&.\*L/man\*O directory.
.PP
The \*Lcatman\*O command assumes
that source reference pages have been written using the
\*Lman\*O(5) or \*Lrsml\*O(5) macro package.
.PP
An argument not starting with a \- (single minus sign)
is assumed to be a list of the reference sections to look in.
If you do not specify a list, \*Lcatman\*O uses the default which is
the complete list of the numbered sections (12345678).  In general, sections are
referenced by a single digit in the range 1 through 8.  But, you can use
any section allowed by the \*Lman\*O(1) command.  The list of sections
is applied to all reference page directories that you want formatted.
.gL "reference section"
.PP
If a \&.\&.\&.\*L/man/cat\*V?\*O directory does not exist for a section,
the directory is created.
.PP
If the first line of a reference page is
similar to either of the following lines, \*Lcatman\*O creates a soft link
in the reference page's corresponding \*Lcat\*V?\*O directory:
.if n .PP
.oS
\&.so man?/title2.section

\&.soman?/title2.section
.oE
.PP
The link is made to the appropriate reference page file:
.if n .PP
.oS
\&.\&.\&./cat?/title2.section
.oE
As an example, the \*L/usr/share/man/man1/egrep.1\*O file contains
the line \*L.so man1/grep.1\*O.  When \*Lcatman\*O runs, it creates
the following soft link:
.if n .PP
.oS
/usr/share/man/cat1/egrep.1   --->   ../cat1/grep.1
.oE
.PP
The remainder of the reference page is ignored.  Such "\&.so man"
source reference pages are known as \*Vcross-reference\*O reference pages.
.PP
A source reference page file can have a multi-character 7-bit ASCII
subsection suffix appended to its name, following the section character.
The subsection suffix, if it exists, must start with a letter.  The
formatted reference page file will include the subsection suffix in its
name.
.PP
The \*Lcatman\*O command assumes that \*Lnroff\*O source files can
contain unprocessed tables and equations.  Therefore, it automatically
processes source files through \*Ltbl\*O and \*Lneqn\*O before
invoking \*Lnroff\*O.
.PP
Processing reference pages always invokes \*Lnroff\*O with the
\*L-Tlp\*O flag to format output for the \*Lterm\*O(4) \*Llp\*O
device.
.PP
When you view preformatted reference page files directly with the \*Lmore\*O
command, you should invoke \*Lmore\*O with the \*L-svf\*O flags.  You
should use the \*Lvf\*O flags to have the pages display properly in cases
where the \*Lnroff lp\*O device driver generates special device control codes.
The following lists the means of the variables that can be used in the
MANPATH environment variable.
.VL 3m
.LI "\*L%L\*O"
The current locale name, for example, ja_JP.eucJP, that is defined for
the LC_MESSAGES environment variable or the LANG ebvironment variable
(if LC_MESSAGES is not defined).
.LI "\*L%P\*O"
The same as %L except that any "@" modifier is removed.
.LI "\*L%l\*O"
The language element of the current locale name, for example ja.
.LI "\*L%t\*O"
The territory element of the current locale name, for example JP.
territory
.LI "\*L%c\*O"
The code set element from the current locale name, for example, eucJP.
.LI "\*L%\&%\&\*O"
A single % (percent sign) character.
.LE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The \*Lcatman\*O command changes its directory to \*L/usr/share/man\*O or
to any directories specified with the \*L-M\*O flag or in the
\*LMANPATH\*O environment variable.
Some reference pages assume this change of directory.  Therefore, an
attempt to format some reference pages can fail if any \*L.so\*O
directives specifying partial pathnames do not start with \*Lman\*V?/\*O.
.PP
The \*L/usr/share/man/man\*V?\*O directories for Sections C, L, F, n, l,
p, o, 0, and 9 are optional.  Only your system administrator can create
 them.  Once they are created, however, \*Lcatman\*O will create the
corresponding \&.\&.\&.\*L/man/cat\*V?\*O directories whenever it
receives a request to format reference pages in one of those directories.
.PP
The \*Lman -f\*O and \*Lman -k\*O commands fail unless the \*Lwhatis\*O
keyword database exists for the specified \&.\&.\&.\*L/man\*O directory.
The operating system does not provide an initial \*L/usr/share/man/whatis\*O file.
You create the \*Lwhatis\*O file when you invoke \*Lcatman\*O.
Whenever you install new reference pages, you should use
the \*L-w\*O option with \*Lcatman\*.
.PP
Source reference pages are formatted for the \*Lnroff lp\*O device.
The \*Llp\*O device driver, as supplied by the operating system, is set to generate
output for Digital Equipment Corporation terminals as specified in
\*Lterm\*O(4).  If your system administrator changes the supplied
setting for the \*Llp\*O device, all preformatted reference page files
created by \*Lman\*O or \*Lcatman\*O should be deleted and reformatted
for the new \*Llp\*O device.
.PP
Preformatted reference pages may not be in a format suitable for printing
on your hardcopy printers.  To format a reference page for a specific
printer, move to the reference page directory and issue a command such
as the following:
.iS
% cd /usr/share/man
% tbl man1/ls.1 |neqn |nroff -T\*Vdevice\*L -man -h | lpr -Pmyprinter
.iE
.PP
Replace the \*Vdevice\*O argument with \*L/usr/share/lib/term/tab\*Vdevice\*O,
where \*Vdevice\*O is the name of a device listed in \*Lterm\*O(4).
.PP
If the reference page has tables and the hardcopy device is not
capable of reverse line movements, the reference page might not
print properly.
.PP
If the \*LMORE\*O environment variable is set, it should include the
\*Lv\*O and \*Lf\*O flags in order for preformatted reference pages
to display properly.
.PP
However, preformatted reference pages might not be in a format suitable
for display on non-Digital terminals.  To format a reference page for
a specified terminal, move to the reference page directory and issue a command
such as the following:
.iS
% cd /usr/share/man
% tbl man1/ls.1 |neqn |nroff -T\*Vdevice\*L -man -h | more -svf
.iE
.PP
Replace the \*Vdevice\*O argument with \*L/usr/share/lib/term/tab\*Vdevice\*O,
where \*Vdevice\*O is the name of a device listed in \*Lterm\*O(4).
.PP
The operating system contains no \*Lnroff\*O support for non-Digital terminals or
printers.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To update sections 1, 2, and 3 only, enter:
.iS
catman 123
.iE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 10m
.LI "\*L/usr/share/man\*O"
Default reference page directory.
.LI "\*L/usr/share/man/man\*V?\*O"
Directories containing \*Lnroff\*O sources for reference pages.
.LI "\*L/usr/share/man/cat\*V?/*\*O"
Directories containing standard preformatted reference pages.
.LI "\*L/usr/share/man/cat\*V?/\*L.z\*O"
Packed preformatted reference pages (if any).
.LI "\*L/usr/local/man/man\*V?\*O"
Directories containing \*Lnroff\*O sources for local reference pages.
.LI "\*L/usr/local/man/cat\*V?/*\*O"
Directories containing local reference pages.
.LI "\*L/usr/share/man/whatis\*O"
The \*Lwhatis\*O keyword database created by \*Lcatman\*O.
.LI "\*L/usr/lbin/mkwhatis\*O"
Command script to make the \*Lwhatis\*O database.
.LI "\*L/usr/lbin/getNAME\*O"
Program used by the \*Lmkwhatis\*O command to extract data from
reference pages.
.LI "\*L/usr/local/man/whatis\*O"
Local \*Lwhatis\*O keyword database created by \*Lcatman\*O.
.LI "\*Vpathname\*L/man\*O"
Directory containing reference page information to be searched when the
\*L-M\*O flag is specified or when the \*LMANPATH\*O environment
variable is set.  This directory is assumed to have the same
organization as \*L/usr/share/man\*O.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lman\*O(1), \*Lneqn\*O(1), \*Lnroff\*O(1), \*Ltbl\*O(1)
.PP
Files:  \*Lterm\*O(4), \*Lman\*O(5), \*Lrsml\*O(5).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
