.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cddevsuppl.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/06 21:25:20 $
.\"
.\" Rock Ridge Group Rock Ridge Interchange Protocol
.TH cddevsuppl 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lcddevsuppl\*O \- set and get the major and minor numbers of a device file on a Rock Ridge format CD-ROM
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "cddevsuppl command"
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/cddevsuppl\*O \*L-m \*Vmapfile\*O [\*L-c\*O]
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/cddevsuppl\*O \*L-u \*Vunmapfile\*O [\*L-c\*O]
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/cddevsuppl\*O [\*L-c\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
The following options are available:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-m \*Vmapfile\*O"
Maps the major and minor numbers for device files. The mappings are specified
in \*Vmapfile\*O. This text file has one entry for each device file mapping in
the format:
.sS
\*Vdevice_file_path   new_major   new_minor\*O
.sE
.IP
The \*Vdevice_file_path\*O field is the full path name of the file on the
CD-ROM, and the \*Vnew_major\*O and \*Vnew_minor\*O fields are integers. The
fields are separated by white space. The entries are separated by newlines.
Anything beyond the third field is ignored. The following is an example of
\*Vmapfile\*O:
.oS
/mnt/dev/ttys4  8 2050
/mnt/dev/zero   38  0
.oE
.IP
The maximum number of mappings for a Rock Ridge compact disk is defined in the
header file \*L<sys/cdrom.h>\*O. If a device file is mapped again, the previous
device file mapping for the device file is overridden.
.LI "\*L-u \*Vunmapfile\*O"
Unmaps the major and minor numbers for device files. The mappings are specified
in \*Vunmapfile\*O. This text file has one entry for each device file mapping
in the format:
.sS
\*Vdevice_file_path\*O
.sE
.IP
The \*Vdevice_file_path\*O field is the full path name of the file on the
CD-ROM. The entries are separated by newlines. Anything beyond the first field
is ignored.  The following is an example of
\*Vmapfile\*O:
.oS
/mnt/dev/zero
.oE
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Directs \*Lcddevsuppl\*O to continue processing the device file mappings if
an error is returned for a specific device file mapping. An error message for
that specific device file will be printed to standard error. The default action
is to stop processing when an error has occurred. This option is only useful
when used in combination with the \*L-m \*Vmapfile\*O or \*L-u \*Vunmapfile\*O
options.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This \*Lcddevsuppl\*O command is used to map and unmap the major and minor
numbers of a device file on a mounted Rock Ridge format CD-ROM. The \*L\-m
\*Vmapfile\*O option maps the major and minor number of device files and
displays the new setting, if the mapping is successful.  This option is
used to add new mappings or to change existing mappings, in case the major and
minor numbers of the device files are incorrect.
.PP
The \*L\-u \*Vunmapfile\*O option removes the existing mappings for files
specified in \*Vunmapfile\*O and displays the device file and the major/minor
numbers as recorded on the CD-ROM.
.PP
If no options are used, the \*Lcddevsuppl\*O command displays the existing
device file mappings. If the mapping table is empty, nothing is displayed.
Note: The mapping table is cleared after a \*Lmount\*O or \*Lumount\*O command.
.\" Removed per Larry Lopez
.\".PP
.\"The \*L-m \*Vmapfile\*O and \*L-u \*Vunmapfile\*O options are mutually
.\"exclusive.
.\".PP
.\"If no options are used the current device file mappings are listed on standard
.\"output. In the case of the \*L-m \*Vmapfile\*O option, the new setting is
.\"listed if the mapping was completed successfully. In the case of the
.\"\*L-u \*Vunmapfile\*O option, the device file and the major/minor numbers as
.\"recorded on the CD-ROM are listed if the unmapping was completed successfully.
.\" Removed per Larry Lopez
.\".PP
.\"Diagnostic messages are printed out to STDERR.
.\".PP
.\"The input files are text files.
.PP
If you want to open a device file on a CD-ROM, the \*Ldev\*O option must be
specified in the the mount command.  See \*Lmount\*O(8) for more information.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Only the superuser can change administrative CD-ROM features successfully. To
read the current device file mappings, the user must have read permission on
the device file.
.PP
Mappings should be established before affected device files are used. If the
command is applied for device file mappings when device files have already been
opened, the effect of this command on these files is undefined.
.PP
Only existing devices files on the CD-ROM can be mapped. These files are
indicated by the mode: \*Lb\*O (block special file) or \*Lc\*O (character
special file). Use the \*Lls \-l\*O command to display the file modes..
.PP
If you access device files on a CD-ROM that are mapped to inappropriate major
and minor numbers, undefined results can occur.
.PP
The device file mappings for a mounted CD-ROM are eliminated when the CD-ROM is
unmounted.
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
The following exit values are returned:
.VL
.LI "0"
Successful completion
.LI "1"
File not found, file is not a file or directory within a CD-ROM file hierarchy,
or access denied
.LI "2"
Not user with appropriate privileges
.LI "3"
Too many mappings
.LI "4"
Parameter error or bad format in a mapping file
.LI "5"
File is not a device file
.LI "6"
File not previously mapped
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example shows the output of the \*Lcddevsuppl\*O command when no
CD-ROM is mounted and no files are mapped:
.iS
# cddevsuppl
#
.iE
.if n .PP
The following example shows the output of the \*Lcddevsuppl\*O command after a
CD-ROM file system has been mounted:
.iS
# /usr/sbin/mount \-t cdfs \-o noversion,rrip,dev /dev/rz4c /mnt
# cddevsuppl
#
.iE
.if n .PP
The following example maps the major and minor numbers of files
mounted in the previous example and specified in \*Vmapfile\*O. Note: If you
want, you can issue an \*L ls \-l\*O command before and after the
\*Lcddevsuppl\*O command to verify that the major and minor numbers have
changed:
.iS
# cddevsuppl \-m /tmp/mapfile
/mnt/dev/ttys4: (8,2050)
/mnt/dev/zero: (38,0)
.iE
.if n .PP
The following example unmaps the major and minor numbers of
the file specified in \*Vunmapfile\*O file and shows the result of the
subsequent \*Lcddevsuppl\*O command:
.iS
# cddevsuppl \-u /tmp/unmapfile
/mnt/dev/zero: (1,5)
# cddevsuppl
/mnt/dev/ttys4: (8,2050)
.iE
.if n .PP
The following example unmounts the \*L/mnt\*O file system and shows the output
of the subsequent \*Lcddevsuppl\*O command:
.iS
# umount /mnt
# cddevsuppl
#
.iE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lmount\*O(8)
.PP
Files: \*Lcdfs\*O(4)
.PP
Functions: \*Lcd_setdevmap\*O(3), \*Lcd_getdevmap\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
