.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: chfile.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/22 18:44:31 $
.\"
.\"
.TH chfile 8
.PP
.\"
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lchfile\*O \- changes the attributes of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX  "chfile command"
.\"
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/chfile\*O [\*L\-l on\*O | \*Loff\*O] \*Vfilename \&.\&.\&.\*O
.\"
.sE
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.\"
.VL 7m
.LI "\*L\-l\*O \*Lon\*O | \*Loff\*O"
Turns data logging for the specified file \*Lon\*O or \*Loff\*O. By default,
data logging is \*Loff\*O.
.LE
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\"
The \*Lchfile\*O command enables you to change the characteristics of a file.
For instance, you can engage or disengage data logging on one or more files
within a file domain.  Using the recovery log of the file domain, the file
system guarantees transaction-like recovery of data written to files
with data logging engaged.
.PP
Enabling data logging can slow system performance.
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
To engage or disengage data logging, you must be the file owner.
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.\" 
.\" format = \*Ldefgh_refpg\*O(1), etc
.\"
.\" Un/comment related manpgs as approp.
.\" 
.\"
\*Ladvfs\*O(4),
.\"
\*Lshowfile\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
