.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: chfsets.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 00:05:46 $
.\"
.TH chfsets 8
.\" 
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lchfsets\*O \- changes fileset attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\"
.sS
\*L/sbin/chfsets\*O [\*L-F\*O \*Vlimit\*O] [\*L-f\*O \*Vlimit\*O]
[\*L-B\*O \*Vlimit\*O] [\*L-b\*O \*Vlimit\*O] \*Vdomain\*O
[\*Vfileset\*O \&. \&. \&.]
.\"
.sE
.sp 8p
.\"
.VL 7m
.LI "\*Vdomain\*O"
Specifies the name of the file domain.
.LI "\*Vfileset\*O"
Specifies the name of one or more filesets.
.LE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-F\*O \*Vlimit\*O"
Specifies the file usage soft limit (quota) of the fileset.
.LI "\*L-f\*O \*Vlimit\*O"
Specifies the file usage hard limit (quota) of the fileset.
.LI "\*L-B\*O \*Vlimit\*O"
Specifies the block usage soft limit (quota) in 1K blocks of the
fileset.
.LI "\*L-b\*O \*Vlimit\*O"
Specifies the block usage hard limit (quota) in 1K blocks of the
fileset.
.LE
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "chfsets command"
.iX "Fileset" "displaying information about"
.iX "Fileset attributes"
.iX "Fileset Quotas"
.\"
The \*Lchfsets\*O command enables you to change file usage limits and block usage
limits. Filesets can have both soft and hard disk storage and file
limits.  When a hard limit is reached, no more disk space allocations or
file creations which would exceed the limit are allowed.  The soft limit
may be exceeded for a period of time (called the grace period).
The grace
periods for the soft limits are set with the \*Lvedquota\*O command.
.PP
The command also displays the changes made to the file and block usage
limits.
.PP
The \*Lchfsets\*O command displays the following fileset information:
.PP
.ML
.LI
\*LId\*O
.nL
A unique number (in hexadecimal format) that identifies a file domain and
fileset.
.LI
\*LFile H limit\*O
.nL
The file usage hard limit of the specified fileset before the change followed by the new
limit.
.LI
\*LBlock H limit\*O
.nL
The block usage hard limit of the specified fileset before the change followed by the new
limit.
.LI
\*LFile S limit\*O
.nL
The file usage soft limit of the specified fileset before the change followed by the new
limit.
.LI
\*LBlock S limit\*O
.nL
The block usage soft limit of the specified fileset before the change followed by the new
limit.
.LE
.PP
Use the following commands to manipulate filesets:
.sp 6p
.VL 6m
.LI "\*Ldf\*O"
Displays the limits and actual number of blocks used by a fileset.
.LI "\*Lshowfdmn\*O"
Displays space usage for the specified domain.
.LI "\*Lshowfsets\*O"
Displays the file and block usage limits for the filesets in a domain.
.LI "\*Lvedquota\*O"
Changes the user or group block and file limits and grace period.
.LI "\*Lvquotaon,vquotaoff\*O"
Turns on and off quota enforcement.
.LE
.PP
For more information, see the reference pages for each command.
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
You must have root-user privilege to change fileset attributes.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example changes the file hard limit from 11 to 200 and block limit from
121 to 1000 for the \*Lcredit_fs\*O
fileset in the \*Laccount_dmn\*O
domain:
.oS

# chfsets -b 1000 -f 200 account_dmn credit_fs  

	credit_fs
		Id		:  2c2f557f.000b15f4.3.8004
		File limit	:  11 --> 200
		Block Limit	:  121 --> 1000
.oE
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Ldf\*O(1), \*Lshowfdmn\*O(8), \*Lshowfsets\*O(8), \*Lvedquota\*O(8), \*Lvquotaon\*O(8),
\*Lvquotaoff\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
