.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: chroot.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:11:21 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\" 
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.TH chroot 8
.SH NAME
\*Lchroot\*O \- Changes the root directory of a command
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP
.sS 
\*L/usr/sbin/chroot \*Vdirectory\*O \*Vcommand\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "chroot command"
.iX "root directory, changing"
.iX "changing" "root directory of a command"
.iX "commands" "changing root directory"
.iX "directories" "changing root"
.PP 
Only \*Lroot\*O
can use the \*Lchroot\*O command.
The \*Lchroot\*O command changes
the root directory from \*L/\*O to the specified \*Vdirectory\*O when the
\*Vcommand\*O executes. (The \*Vcommand\*O specified includes both the command
name as well as any arguments.) Consequently, the root of any path (as
indicated by the first \*L/\*O (slash) in the pathname) changes
to \*Vdirectory\*O and is always relative to the current
root.  Even if the \*Lchroot\*O command is in effect, \*Vdirectory\*O is
relative to the current root of the running process.
.PP 
Several programs may not operate properly after \*Lchroot\*O executes.
For example, the \*Lls \-l\*O command fails to give
user and group names if the current root location and
the \*L/etc/passwd\*O file are on different file systems.
Utilities that depend
on description files produced by the \*Lctab\*O command
may also fail if the required description files
are on a different file system than the new root file system.
You must
ensure that all vital data files are present in the new root file system
and that the relevant pathnames for the data files correspond to the
new root file system.
.PP
Please note that the \*Vcommand\*O specified cannot be in a shell script.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To run a subshell with another file system as the root, enter:
.iS
chroot  /dev/ra1a  /bin/sh
.iE
This command specifies a change from the current root file
system to \*L/dev/ra1a\*O
while \*L/bin/sh\*O executes.  When \*L/bin/sh\*O executes, the original
root file system is inaccessible.  The file system on \*L/dev/ra1a\*O must
contain the standard directories of a root file system.  In particular,
the shell looks for commands in \*L/bin\*O
and \*L/usr/bin\*O on the new root file system.
.PP
Running the \*L/bin/sh\*O command creates a subshell, which runs
as a separate process from the
original shell.  Press
.kY Ctrl-d
to
exit the subshell and to return to the original shell.
This restores the environment of the original shell, including the
meanings of the current directory (\*L\&.\*O) and the root directory (\*L/\*O).
.LI
To run a command in another root file system and save the output on
the initial root file system, enter:
.iS
chroot  /dev/ra1a  /bin/cc  -E  /u/bob/prog.c  > prep.out
.iE
This command runs the \*L/bin/cc\*O command with \*L/dev/ra1a\*O as the
specified root file system.  It compiles the
\*L/dev/ra1a/u/bob/prog.c\*O file, reads the \*L#include\*O files
from the \*L/dev/ra1a/usr/include\*O directory, and puts the compiled text
in the \*Lprep.out\*O file on the initial root file system.
.LI
To create a file relative to the original root rather than the new one,
use this syntax and enter:
.iS
chroot\*O  \*Vdirectory\*O \*Vcommand\*O > \*Vfile
.iE
.LE 
.SH CAUTIONS
.PP
If special files in the new root have different major and minor device
numbers than the initial root directory, it is possible to overwrite the
file system.
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/chroot\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcc\*O(1), \*Lcpp\*O(1), \*Lls\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1)
.PP 
Files:  \*Lctab\*O(4)
.PP 
Functions:  \*Lchdir\*O(2), \*Lchroot\*O(2)
.iX "chroot command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
