.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: chvol.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 00:10:16 $
.\"
.TH chvol 8
.PP
.\"
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lchvol\*O \- changes the attributes of a volume
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "chvol command"
.\"
.sS
\*L/sbin/chvol\*O
[\*L\-r\*O \*Vblocks\*O]
[\*L\-w\*O \*Vblocks\*O]
[\*L\-c\*O \*Lon\*O | \*Loff\*O] \*Vspecial\*O \*Vdomain\*O
.\"
.sE
.sp 8p
.VL 7m
.LI "\*Vspecial\*O"
Specifies the block special device name, such as \*L/dev/rz2c\*O.
.LI "\*Vdomain\*O"
Specifies the name of the file domain.
.LE
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.\"
.VL 7m
.LI "\*L\-r\*O \*Vblocks\*O"
Specifies the maximum number of 512-byte blocks that the file system reads
from the disk at one time.
.LI "\*L\-w\*O \*Vblocks\*O"
Specifies the maximum number of 512-byte blocks that the file system
writes to the disk at one time.
.LI "\*L\-c on\*O | \*Loff\*O"
Turns I/O consolidation mode \*Lon\*O or \*Loff\*O.
.\"
.LE
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "Performance, optimizing" "I/O transfer"
.iX "Optimizing performance" "I/O transfer"
.iX "I/O consolidation mode"
.iX "-: I/O consolidation mode" "cmode"
.iX "Consolidating I/O transfers"
.\"
.\"
The \*Lchvol\*O command enables you to change the attributes of a volume.
For instance, you can consolidate a number of I/O transfers into a single,
large I/O transfer.  The larger the I/O transfer, the better the file-system
performance.
.PP
The initial I/O transfer parameter for both reads and writes is 256 blocks.
Once you change the I/O transfer parameters with the \*L\-r\*O flag or the
\*L\-w\*O flag, the parameters remain fixed until you change them again.
.PP
.iX "Default consolidation mode"
By default, the I/O consolidation mode (cmode) is \*Lon\*O.  The cmode must
be \*Lon\*O for the I/O transfer parameters to take effect.
.PP
You can use the \*L\-c\*O flag to turn the cmode \*Loff\*O, which sets the
I/O transfer parameter to one page.
.PP
When you enter the \*Lchvol\*O command without any flags, the command displays
the current cmode and the I/O transfer parameters.
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
You must have root-user privilege to use this command.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example displays the cmode and the I/O transfer parameters of the
\*L/dev/rz1c\*O volume in the \*Ldomain1\*O file domain:
.\"
.oS

\*L# chvol /dev/rz1c domain1\*O
rblks = 256  wblks = 256  cmode = on

.oE
The example also toggles the cmode:
.oS

\*L# chvol -c /dev/rz1c domain1\*O
.nL
\*L# chvol /dev/rz1c domain1\*O
rblks = 256  wblks = 256  cmode = off

.oE
The example continues by changing the I/O transfer parameters of reads
(rblks) and writes (wblks) from 256 blocks to 512 blocks.  Note
that the cmode is \*Loff\*O and must be \*Lon\*O before the parameters take
effect:
.oS

\*L# chvol -r 512 -w 512 -c /dev/rz1c domain1\*O
.nL
\*L# chvol /dev/rz1c domain1\*O
rblks = 512  wblks = 512  cmode = on
.oE
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.\" 
.\" format = \*Ldefgh_refpg\*O(1), etc
.\"
.\" Un/comment related manpgs as approp.
.\" 
.\"
\*Ladvfs\*O(4),
.\"
\*Lshowfdmn\*O(8)
.\"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
