.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: clri.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:12:45 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" 
.\"	@(#)clri.8	6.1 (Berkeley) 4/27/85
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.TH clri 8
.SH NAME
clri \- Clears i-nodes
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/clri\*O \*Vfilesystem i-number\*O ...
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "clri command"
.PP 
The
\*Lclri\*O
command is obsoleted for normal file system repair work by
the
\*Lfsck\*O
command.
.PP 
The
\*Lclri\*O
command
writes zeros on the i-nodes
with the decimal
\*Vi-numbers\*O
on the
specified filesystem.
After
\*Lclri\*O
has finished its work,
any blocks
in the affected file
are defined as "missing" when you run
\*Licheck\*O
on the
filesystem.
.PP 
Read and write permission is required on the specified
file system device.
The i-node becomes allocatable.
.PP 
The primary purpose of this routine
is to remove a file which
does not appear in any
directory.
If you use the command to remove an i-node
which does appear in a directory, take care to track down
the entry and remove it.
Otherwise, when the i-node is reallocated to some new file,
the old entry will still point to that file.
If you then remove the old entry, you will destroy the new file, and
the new entry will again point to an unallocated i-node.
Consequently, the entire cycle repeats itself.
.PP 
You must
be
\*Lroot\*O
to use this command.
.PP 
If the file is open,
\*Lclri\*O
is likely to be ineffective.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/clri\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Licheck\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
