.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cmx.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/22 18:54:06 $
.\" 
.\" SCCSID: @(#)cmx.8	8.1	9/11/90
.TH cmx 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lcmx\*O \- Generic communication exerciser
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/field/cmx\*O [ \*L-h\*O ] [ \*Lo \*Vfile\*O ] [ \*L-t \*Vn\*O ] \*L-l \*Vline-n\*O \*L...\*O
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.iX "cmx exerciser" "options"
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-h\*O"
Prints help message about command.
.LI "\*L-o\*Vfile\*O"
Saves output diagnostics in \*Lfile\*O.
.LI "\*L-t\*Vn\*O"
Specifies the run time in minutes (\*Vn\*O).
The default is to run until a
.kY "CTRL-C"
or a
\*Lkill \-15 \*Vpid\*O is sent to the process.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "cmx exerciser"
.iX "terminal communications system" "testing"
The \*Lcmx\*O exerciser writes, reads, and validates random data
and packet lengths on a specified communications line.
The line being tested must have a loopback connector attached to the
distribution panel, or the cable and the line must be
disabled in the \*L/etc/inittab\*O file and a non-modem line; the
\*LCLOCAL\*O flag must be set to on.
.PP
The exerciser runs until a
.kY "CTRL-C"
or a
\*Lkill \-15 \*Vpid\*O is sent to the process.
.PP
A logfile is created in \*L/usr/field\*O
for you to examine and then remove; errors can be
listed in the logfile.
.PP
You must specify the \*L-l\*O option followed by the lines to test.
The \*Lline-n\*O arguments identify the lines to be tested.
A maximum of 32 lines can be tested at any one time.  The
\*Lline-n\*O arguments are specified as names taken from the \*L/dev\*O
directory without the letters ``tty.''  For example, if the \*L/dev\*O
directory lists tty03, the \*Lline-n\*O argument is 03.
.PP
The Devices section lists the devices that can be tested.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
If you want to run a system exerciser over an NFS link or on a diskless
system, there are some restrictions.  For exercisers such as
\*Lfsx\*O(8) that need to write
into a file system, the target file system must be writable by root.
Also, the directory from which an
exerciser is executed must be writable by root because temporary
files are written into the directory.  These restrictions can be
difficult to adhere to because NFS file systems are often mounted in a
way that prevents root from writing into them.  Some of the restrictions
may be adhered to by copying the exerciser into another directory and
then executing it.
.PP
.iX "cmx exerciser" "pseudodevices and"
.iX "cmx exerciser" "lat devices"
.\" changed p, q, r, s, t, u and #39 for Sterling: T. Wolklin
Pseudo devices (devices whose first character after tty is
any alphabetic character, other than lowercase d) cannot be tested.
Also lat devices with major #5 cannot be tested.
.SH Devices
.PP
.iX "cmx exerciser" "devices supported"
Use the \*Lfile\*O command on \*L/dev/tty*\*O
to find out which tty line corresponds to a
device line number.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example runs the \*Lcmx\*O
exerciser for 60 minutes on lines 00, 13, 22, and 32:
.oS
% /usr/field/cmx \-t60 \-l 00 13 22 32
.oE
.PP
The following example runs the \*Lcmx\*O
exerciser on lines 11, 42, 45, and 76 in the background until
interrupted by a
.kY "CTRL-C"
or a
\*Lkill \-15 \*Vpid\*O:
.oS
% /usr/field/cmx \-l 11 42 45 76 &
.oE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lmemx\*O(8), \*Lfsx\*O(8), \*Lshmx\*O(8), \*Ltapex\*O(8),
\*Ldiskx\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
