.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: comsat.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 11:27:35 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH comsat 8
.SH NAME
\*Lcomsat\*O \- The \*Lbiff\*O server
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*Lcomsat\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "comsat"
.iX "mail"
.iX "biff server"
.iX "incoming mail reports"
.PP 
The \*Lcomsat\*O server receives reports
of incoming mail and notifies users who request this service.
\*Lcomsat\*O is invoked by the \*Linetd\*O(8) daemon
when it receives messages on a datagram port associated with the
\*Lbiff\*O(1) service specification in \*L/etc/services\*O(4).
The datagram contains a 1-line message of the form:
.iS
\*Vuser\*L\@\*Vmailbox-offset
.iE 
If the \*Vuser\*O specified is logged in and the associated
terminal has the owner execute bit turned on (with \*Lbiff y\*O),
\*Voffset\*O is used as a seek offset into the file named in \*Vmailbox\*O.
The first 7 lines or 560 characters
of the message are printed on the user's system.
The message excludes mail header lines other than the
\*LFrom\*O, \*LTo\*O, \*LDate\*O, or \*LSubject\*O lines.
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/comsat\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LI "\*L/etc/utmp\*O"
Includes information about logged-in users and their associated ttys.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands: \*Lbiff\*O(1), \*Linetd\*O(8)
.PP 
Files: \*Lservices\*O(4), \*Linetd.conf\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
