.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: config.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/29 16:01:10 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
...\"
...\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
...\" Copyright (c) 1980 The Regents of the University of California.
...\" All rights reserved.
...\"
...\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
...\" provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
...\" duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
...\" advertising materials, and other materials related to such
...\" distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
...\" by the University of California, Berkeley.  The name of the
...\" University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived
...\" from this software without specific prior written permission.
...\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
...\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
...\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
...\"
...\"	@(#)config.8	6.3 (Berkeley) 10/25/88
...\"
.TH config 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lconfig\*O \- Builds system configuration files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/sys/conf/config\*O [\*L-k\*O] [\*L-p\*O] [\*L-q\*O] [\*L-s\*O] \*Vsystem_name\*O
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.iX "config command"
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-k\*O"
Creates a define variable 'KDEBUG' that can be used to conditionally
compile source code for kernel debugging.
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Configure the system for profiling.  You must have sources to use this
flag.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L-q\*O"
Concatenates and displays all the system configuration
files, including any configuration files described in the
\*L/sys/conf/\*VNAME\*L.list\*O file.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Build the system from sources.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "config command"
The \*Lconfig\*O command
builds a set of system configuration files from a short file that describes
the sort of system that is being configured.  It also takes as input a file
which tells \*Lconfig\*O what files are needed to generate a system.
This can be augmented by a configuration-specific set of files
that give alternate files for a specific machine.
.PP
Run the \*Lconfig\*O command from the \*Lconf\*O
subdirectory of the system source (\*L/sys/conf\*O).
Its argument is the name of a system configuration file
containing device specifications, configuration options
and other system parameters for that specific system configuration.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Following line removed by Mark Angel 9/9/91
.\" \*Lconfig\*O assumes that a directory \*L../\*Vsystem_name\*O already 
.\" exists. It places all its output files in that directory.
.\" Added this line - Mark Angel 9/9/91
The \*Lconfig\*O command places all its output files in the directory
\*L../\*Vsystem_name\*O.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP
The output of \*Lconfig\*O
consists of a number of files; each machine type has its own specific
set of files.  All machine types have a
\*Lmakefile\*O which is used by \*Lmake\*O
during the system build.  Typically, there are also
a set of header files which contain definitions of
the number of various devices that will be compiled into the system,
and a set of swap configuration files contain definitions for
the disk areas to be used for swapping, the root file system,
argument processing, and system dumps.
.PP
After running \*Lconfig\*O, you run \*Lmake depend\*O in the directory
where the new makefile was created.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Removed line - Mark Angel 9/9/91 
.\" \*Lconfig\*O prints a reminder of this when it completes.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP
If any other error messages are produced by \*Lconfig\*O,
the problems in the configuration file should be corrected and
\*Lconfig\*O should be run again.
Attempts to compile a system that had configuration errors
are likely to be unsuccessful.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The line numbers reported in error messages are usually off by one.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.\" .LI "\*L/sys/conf/makefile.\*Vmachine type\*O"
.\" Generic makefile for the specific machine type
.LI "\*L/sys/conf/files\*O"
List of common files used to build the system
.\" .LI "\*L/sys/conf/files.\*Vmachine type\*O"
.\" List of machine specific files
.\" .LI "\*L/sys/conf/devices.\*Vmachine type\*O"
.\" Name to major device mapping file for the \*Vmachine type\*O
.LI "\*L/sys/conf/files.\*VNAME\*O"
List of files specific to \*VNAME\*O, where \*VNAME\*O is the
value specified for the \*Lident\*O option in the system configuration
file
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Added following files - Mark Angel 9/9/91
.LI "\*L/sys/conf/template.mk.std\*O"
Machine-independent portion of the makefile template used for
building kernels from binaries
.LI "\*L/sys/conf/template.mk\*O"
Machine-independent portion of the makefile template used for
building kernels from sources
.LI "\*L/sys/conf/\*Vmachine_type\*L/template.mk\*O"
Machine-dependent portion of the makefile template
.LI "\*L/sys/conf/\*Vmachine_type\*L/files\*O"
List of machine-specific files
.LI "\*L/sys/conf/\*Vmachine_type\*L/devices\*O"
Machine-specific name to major device mapping file
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lmake\*O(1), \*Ldoconfig\*O(8)
.PP
\*ESystem Administration\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
