.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: conflict.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 13:33:23 $
.\"
.TH conflict 8
.SH NAME
conflict \- search for alias/password conflicts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /usr/lib/mh/conflict
[
.B \-help
] [
.B \-mail
\*Vname\*O
] [
.B \-search
\*Vdirectory\*O
] [
\*Valiasfiles ...\*O
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "conflicts" "aliases"
.iX "conflicts" "passwords"
.iX "aliases" "conflicts"
.iX "passwords" "conflicts"
The \*Lconflict\*O program checks to see if the interface between MH
and transport system is in good shape.
It also checks for maildrops in \*L/usr/spool/mail\*O
which do not belong to a valid user.
It assumes that no user name will start with a dot (.)
and thus ignores files in \*L/usr/spool/mail\*O
which begin with a dot.
.PP
The \*Lconflict\*O program checks the entries in the specified alias files.
It parses the entries in the same way that \*Lpost\*O
would, and outputs any errors which it finds.
The program can be used to check the entries in a user's
personal alias file, or in the system alias file, \*L/usr/lib/mh/MailAliases\*O.
If no alias file is specified, \*Lconflict\*O checks the system alias file.
.PP
The \*Lconflict\*O program also checks the \*L/etc/group\*O
file for entries which do not belong to a valid user,
and for users who do not have a valid group number.
In addition, duplicate users and groups are noted.
.PP
The \*Lconflict\*O program should be run under \*Lcron\*O,
or whenever system accounting takes place.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP "\-help" 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.IP "\-mail \f2name\f3"
Mails the results to the specified \f2name\f1.
Otherwise, the results are sent to the standard output.
.\"
.IP "\-search \f2directory\f3"
Searches directories other than \*L/usr/spool/mail\*O,
and reports anomalies in those directories.
The
.B \-search
switch can appear more than once in an invocation to \*Lconflict\*O,
with different directories named.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L/usr/lib/mh/mtstailor\*O
The system customization file.
.TP 10
\*L/etc/passwd\*O
The system password file.
.TP 10
\*L/etc/group\*O
The system group file.
.TP 10
\*L/usr/bin/mh/mhmail\*O
Program used to mail results, if the
.B \-mail
option is used.
.TP 10
\*L/usr/spool/mail\*O
Directory containing users' maildrops.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lmh-alias\*O(4), \*Lcron\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
