.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: crashdc.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/11/23 16:19:08 $
.\"
.TH crashdc 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lcrashdc\*O -  Diagnostic data collection for a running or crashed system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/bin/crashdc\*O [\*Vsystem-kernel\*O] [\*Vcore-image\*O]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "crashdc utility"
The \*Lcrashdc\*O utility examines the core image of the operating system to
extract critical diagnostic data. This utility is a shell script that
invokes several tools and commands that extract selected parameters of a
running or a crashed system (for example, system configuration, running
processes, and panic messages).
.PP
The arguments to the \*Lcrashdc\*O utility are the system kernel and the
core image. The default values are \*L/vmunix\*O and \*L/dev/mem\*O,
respectively. If you specify no arguments, the \*Lcrashdc\*O utility examines
the running system.
.PP
The system usually invokes the \*Lcrashdc\*O utility during system startup. If the
most recent core dump has been saved by the \*Lsavecore\*O command, both the
core image and the system kernel (respectively \*Lvmcore.\*Vn\*O and
\*Lvmunix.\*Vn\*O, where the variable \*Vn\*O is the crash number) are saved
in the crash directory (by default, \*L/var/adm/crash\*O). Also, the \*Lcrashdc\*O
utility saves the output as the file \*Lcrash-data.\*Vn\*O (where the variable
\*Vn\*O is the crash number) in the crash
directory. The \*Lcrashdc\*O utility is invoked only if \*Lcrash-data.\*Vn\*O
output in the crash directory does not exist or is not from the most recent
crash.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 15m
.LI "\*L/dev/mem\*O"
Default core image
.LI "\*L/vmunix\*O"
Default system image
.LI "\*Lcrash-data.\*Vn\*O"
Output from \*Lcrashdc\*O
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Ldbx\*O(1), \*Lkdbx\*O(8), \*Lsavecore\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
