.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cron.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:14:17 $
.\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
...\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
...\" 
...\" 
...\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" 
...\"build rmifdef
.TH cron 8
.SH NAME
.PP 
\*Lcron\*O - The system clock daemon
.iX "cron command"
.iX "running" "commands automatically"
.iX "commands" "running automatically"
.iX "shell" "command execution"
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP
.sS 
\*L/usr/sbin/cron\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP 
The \*Lcron\*O daemon runs shell commands at specified dates and
times.  Commands that are to run according to a regular or periodic
schedule are found within the \*Lcrontab\*O files.
Commands that are to run once only are found within the \*Lat\*O files.
You submit \*Lcrontab\*O and \*Lat\*O file entries by using
the \*Lcrontab\*O and \*Lat\*O commands.
Because the \*Lcron\*O process exits only when killed or when the
system stops, only one \*Lcron\*O daemon should exist on the
system at any given time.  Normally, you start the
\*Lcron\*O
daemon from
within a run command file.
.PP 
During process initialization and when \*Lcron\*O detects a change,
it examines the \*Lcrontab\*O and \*Lat\*O files.
This strategy reduces the overhead of checking for new or
changed files at regularly scheduled intervals.
.PP 
The \*Lcron\*O daemon executes a \*Lsync\*O system
call (approximately once a minute) to ensure that all information in
memory that should be on disk (buffered output) is written out.  These
periodic updates minimize the possibility of file system damage in the
event of a crash.
The \*Lcron\*O command creates a log of its activities.
The
\*Lcron\*O
daemon must be started from the system startup scripts because it must begin execution without a login user ID set.
The
\*Lcron\*O
daemon starts each job with the following process
attributes stored with the job by the invoking process:
.ML
.LI
Login user ID
.LI
Effective and real user IDs
.LI
Effective and real group IDs
.LI
Supplementary groups
.LE 
.PP 
It also establishes the following attributes from the
authentication profile of the account associated with
the login user ID of the invoking process:
.ML
.LI
Audit control and disposition masks
.LI
Kernel authorizations
.LE 
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP 
The
\*Lat\*O
and
\*Lbatch\*O
programs will refuse to accept jobs submitted from processes
whose login user ID is different from the real user ID.
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/cron\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lat\*O(1), \*Lcrontab\*O(1), \*Lrc0\*O(8), \*Lrc2\*O(8), 
\*Lrc3\*O(8)
.PP 
Functions:  \*Lsync\*O(2)
.iX "cron command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
