.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: depord.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/10 17:39:30 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)depord.8 3.1 of 3/13/92
.TH depord 8
.SH NAME
\*Ldepord\*O - order subset dependencies
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/lbin/depord\*O \*Vsubset-id\*O [ \*Vsubset-id\*O... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "depord"
.iX "subset dependencies"
The
\*Ldepord\*O
command reads the subset control files in the current directory to
locate dependency information.  The dependency information is used to
reorder the argument list so that if subsets are installed in the order
displayed by
\*Ldepord\*O,
all dependencies will be satisfied.
.PP
If a subset has dependencies which cannot be satisfied by the subsets
listed on the command line, it is ignored and does not appear in the
output.
.PP
All subsets in a cycle of dependencies (a case in which subsets are
mutually dependent) are ignored and do not appear in the output.
.PP
The
\*Ldepord\*O
command is used by
\*Lsetld\*O(8)
and is also particularly useful on its own.
.PP
The
\*Ldepord\*O
command prints its arguments sorted in dependency order.
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 12
\*L\&./*.ctrl\*O
Control files with dependency information
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.\"Begin Digital specific modification.
.\"Had to modify to correct a bad page break.
.\"Commands:  setld(8)
.\".PP
.\"File formats:  stl_ctrl(4)
.\".PP
.\"\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
setld(8); stl_ctrl(4);
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
.\"End Digital specific modification.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
