.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: diskpart.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/16 15:51:49 $
.\"
.TH diskpart 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ldiskpart\*O \- Calculates default disk partition sizes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/diskpart\*O [\*L\-p\*O] [\*L\-d\*O] \*Vdisktype\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "diskpart command"
.iX "disk partition" "calculating default size"
The \*Ldiskpart\*O command is not supported and is
superseded by the \*Ldisklabel\*O command.
.PP
The \*Ldiskpart\*O command
is used to calculate the disk partition sizes based on the
default rules used at Berkeley.
Space is always available in the last partition on the disk
for a bad sector forwarding table.  The space reserved
is one track for the replicated copies of the table and
sufficient tracks to hold a pool of 126 sectors to which bad sectors
are mapped.
.\" For more information, see \*Lbad144\*O(8).
.PP
The disk partition sizes are based on the total amount of
space on the disk as give in the table below (all values
are supplied in units of 512 byte sectors).
.iX "disk partition" "disk space and"
The `c' partition
is, by convention, used to access the entire physical disk, including
the space reserved for the bad sector forwarding table.
In normal operation, either the `g' partition is used, or the
`d', `e', and `f' partitions are used.  The `g' and `f' partitions
are variable sized, occupying whatever space remains after allocation
of the fixed sized partitions.
If the disk is smaller than 20 Megabytes, then \*Ldiskpart\*O
aborts with the message ``disk too small, calculate by hand.''
.\" .sS
.\" Partition 20-60 MB 61-205 MB 206-355 MB 356+ MB
.\" a 15884 15884 15884 15884
.\" b 10032 33440 33440 66880
.\" d 15884 15884 15884 15884
.\" e unused 55936 55936 307200
.\" h unused unused 291346 291346
.\" .sE
.PP
If an unknown disk type is specified, \*Ldiskpart\*O
prompts for the required disk geometry information.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L\-p\*O"
Produces tables suitable for inclusion in a device driver.
.LI "\*L\-d\*O"
Produces an entry suitable for inclusion in the disk
\*L/etc/disktab\*O description file.
For more information, see \*Ldisktab\*O(4).
.LE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Certain default partition sizes are based on historical artifacts
.\" (for example, RP06), 
and may result in unsatisfactory layouts.
.PP
If you specify the \*L\-d\*O flag, alternate disk names are not included
in the output.
.PP
The \*Ldiskpart\*O
command does not understand how to handle drives attached to the
MSCP disk interface controllers described in \*Lra\*O(7).
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
disklabel(8), disktab(4), ra(7), rz(7)
.\" bad144(8), 
.EQ
delim off
.EN
