.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: disklabel.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/05 15:36:34 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1987, 1988 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Symmetric Computer Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
.\" provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
.\" duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
.\" advertising materials, and other materials related to such
.\" distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
.\" by the University of California, Berkeley.  The name of the
.\" University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\" from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)disklabel.8	6.7 (Berkeley) 7/9/88
.\"
.TH disklabel 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ldisklabel\*O \- Reads and writes disk pack label
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/sbin/disklabel\*O [\*L\-r\*O] \*Vdisk\*O
.PP
\*L/sbin/disklabel \-w\*O [\*L\-r\*O] [\*L\-n\*O] \*Vdisk disktype\*O [\*Vpackid\*O]
[\*Vprimary-boot secondary-boot\*O]
.PP
\*L/sbin/disklabel \-e\*O [\*L\-r\*O] \*Vdisk\*O
.PP
\*L/sbin/disklabel \-R\*O [\*L\-r\*O] [\*L\-n\*O] \*Vdisk protofile\*O
[\*Vdisktype\*O | \*Vprimary-boot secondary-boot\*O]
.PP
\*L/sbin/disklabel [\*L\-N\*O | \*L\-W\*O] \*Vdisk\*O
.PP
\*L/sbin/disklabel \*L\-z\*O \*Vdisk\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "disklabel command"
.PP
The \*Ldisklabel\*O command can be used to install, examine,
or modify the label on a disk drive or pack.
.PP
The \*Ldisklabel\*O command can be used
to change the drive identification or the disk partitions on the drive,
or to replace a damaged label or bootstrap.
The disk label is located on one of the first sectors
of each disk (usually block 0).
On machines that require a block-0 bootstrap,
the label is inserted into the bootstrap program.
This information is used by the system disk driver and by the bootstrap
program to determine how to program the drive.
There are several forms of the command that display, install or modify
the label on a disk.
.PP
There are two copies of a disk label, one located on the disk and one located
in system memory.  Because it is faster to access system memory than to
perform I/O, when a system recognizes a disk, it copies the disk
label into memory.
.PP
The \*Vdisk\*O variable specifies the disk (for
example, \*Lrz0\*O or \*L/dev/rrz0a\*O).  Note that if the disk partition
is not specified, the \*La\*O partition is used.  The \*Vdisktype\*O
variable specifies the type of disk.  The \*L/etc/disktab\*O
file contains a list of disk types and their parameters and
partitions.
.PP
If you want disks that are the same type to have different partition
parameters, you must have separate \*L/etc/disktab\*O file entries
describing each disk, or you must edit the disks' labels after
installation with the \*L\-w\*O flag.  If your disk type is not
specified in the \*L/etc/disktab\*O file, \*Ldisklabel\*O uses the
default partition information in the driver.
.PP
Each form has an additional option, \*L\-r\*O,
which causes the label to be read from or written to the disk directly,
instead of reading the system's in-memory copy of the label.
When writing, the in-memory copy is also updated if the parameters are valid.
The \*L\-r\*O option must be used if there is no label already on the
disk.
This option may allow a label to be installed on a disk without
kernel support for a label, such as when labels are first installed
on a system.
.PP
The first form of the command is used to examine the label on the
specified disk drive.
It displays all of the parameters associated with the drive
and its partition layout.
If the disk has no label or if the partition types on the disk are
incorrect, the kernel may have constructed or modified the label.
If you specify the \*L\-r\*O
flag, the label from the raw disk is displayed instead of the
in-memory label.
.PP
The second form of the command, with the \*L\-w\*O
flag, writes a standard label on the designated drive.
You must specify the disk and
the disk type as described in the \*L/etc/disktab\*O file.
The optional \*Vpackid\*O argument specifies a pack identification string
that contains up to 16 characters.   Use quotes around 
the \*Lpackid\*O argument
if it contains blanks.  If the \*L\-r\*O
flag is specified with the \*L\-w\*O flag, the disk sectors that contain
the label and bootstrap are written directly;
otherwise the existing label is updated in place without modifying
the bootstrap.  In either case, the kernel's in-memory label is replaced.
Alternate versions of the bootstrap files
can be specified with the \*Vprimary-boot\*O and \*Vsecondary-boot\*O)
arguments.  If an alternate bootstrap is
not specified, the standard bootstrap is used.
.PP
The bootstrap programs are located in \*L/mdec\*O.
The names of the bootstrap programs can be specified in the
\*L/etc/disktab\*O file, but if they are not specified,
the default names use either the \*Vbasename boot\*O syntax
for the primary (block 0) bootstrap or the \*Vboot basename\*O syntax
for the secondary (block 1-15) bootstrap.
For example, the names are \*L/mdec/rzboot\*O and
\*L/mdec/bootrz\*O for an rz-type disk.
.PP
An existing disk label can be edited by using the \*L\-e\*O flag.
The label is read from the in-memory kernel copy,
or directly from the disk if the \*L\-r\*O flag is specified.
The label is formatted and then sent to an editor.
If no editor is specified with the \*LEDITOR\*O environment variable,
the \*Lvi\*O editor is used.  If \*Lvi\*O is not available, the
\*Led\*O editor is used.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.PP
Note that if an unexpected error occurs during the
\*Led\*O editing session, the following message will appear:
.iS
Warning, edit session exited abnormally!
.iE
.PP
You should re-edit the disk label to ensure that you made the modifications.
.\"
.\" The \*Led\*O editor then allows you to re-edit the disk label.  If you do
.\" not re-edit the disk label, the label will not be modified.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP
When the editor terminates, the formatted label is reread
and used to rewrite the disk label.
.PP
Note that if you replace an existing label with a new label, the
existing partition information will be copied to the new label if the
new label's
partition is marked unused.  This may cause \*Ldisklabel\*O to
fail and can be avoided by first clearing the disk label with the
\*L\-z\*O option.
.PP
The following example clears the existing label, writes a new label,
and then displays the current label:
.oS
# disklabel -z rz6
# disklabel -rw rz6 rzw7s
# disklabel -r rz6
# /dev/rrz6a:
type: SCSI
disk: rzw7s
label:
flags:
bytes/sector: 512
sectors/track: 71
tracks/cylinder: 15
sectors/cylinder: 1065
cylinders: 1900
sectors/unit: 2023500
rpm: 3600
interleave: 1
trackskew: 0
cylinderskew: 0
headswitch: 0           # milliseconds
track-to-track seek: 0  # milliseconds
drivedata: 0

8 partitions:
#        size   offset   fstype  [fsize bsize  cpg]
  a:   131072        0   unused    1024  8192   # (Cyl.    0 - 123*)
  b:   262144   131072   unused    1024  8192   # (Cyl.  123*- 369*)
  c:  2023500        0   unused    1024  8192   # (Cyl.    0 - 1899)
  d:   163840  1703936   unused    1024  8192   # (Cyl. 1599*- 1753*)
  e:    32768  1867776   unused    1024  8192   # (Cyl. 1753*- 1784*)
  f:   122956  1900544   unused    1024  8192   # (Cyl. 1784*- 1899*)
  g:  1310720   393216   unused    1024  8192   # (Cyl.  369*- 1599*)
  h:   319564  1703936   unused    1024  8192   # (Cyl. 1599*- 1899*)
.oE
.PP
If you specify the \*L\-R\*O flag, \*Ldisklabel\*O
restores a disk label that was previously formatted
and saved in an ASCII file.
The \*Vprotofile\*O argument specifies the prototype file that is used
to create the label.  This file should be in the same format that is
produced when reading or editing a label.
Comments are indicated with number signs (\*L#\*O) and newline.
If the \*L\-r\*O option is specified,
a block-0 bootstrap is installed on the machines that use that type of
bootstrap; either the disk type or the names of the bootstrap files
must be specified on such machines.
.PP
The \*L\-N\*O and \*L\-W\*O flags do not allow and
allow, respectively, you to write to the disk pack label area.
The label sector is always write-protected when
the drive is first opened; the write-enable flag set by \*L\-W\*O
persists only until all partitions on the drive are closed.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 6m
.LI "\*L\-e\*O"
Edits an existing label.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L\-n\*O"
Does not write a bootstrap along with the label.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L\-r\*O"
Reads or writes the label directly to or from the disk,
rather than going through the in-memory copy of the label.
.LI "\*L\-R\*O"
Restores a disk label that was formatted
in a prior operation and saved in an ASCII file.
.LI "\*L\-w\*O"
Writes a standard label on the designated drive.
.LI "\*L\-N\*O"
Disallows writing of the pack label area on the specified disk.
.LI "\*L\-W\*O"
Allows writing of the pack label area on the specified disk.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L\-z\*O"
Zeros (clears) the disk label.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
The kernel device drivers do not allow the size of a disk partition
to be decreased or the offset of a partition to be changed
while it is open.  Some device drivers create a label containing
only a single large partition if a disk is unlabeled; thus the
label must be written to the "a" or "c" partition of the disk
while it is open.  This sometimes requires the desired
label to be set in two steps, the first one creating at least
one other partition, and the second setting the label on the
new partition while shrinking the "a" partition.
.PP
The kernel does not allow file system information to be set "unused" for
open partitions.  For example, if you want to set the \*La\*O partition
to "unused," you must write the label using a different partition (such
as the \*Lc\*O partition).  For example:
.oS
# disklabel -w /dev/rrz0c rz56
.oE
.PP
If a file system exists for an open partition, the existing file system
information is copied to the new label.  This preserves the existing
information without returning an error.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 13m
.LI "\*L/etc/disktab\*O"
Contains information about disks and drives.
.LI "\*L/mdec/\*Vxx\*Lboot\*O"
Primary bootstrap programs.
.LI "\*L/mdec/boot\*Vxx\*O"
Secondary bootstrap programs.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Files:
\*Ldisklabel\*O(4), \*Ldisktab\*O(4), \*Lrz\*O(7), \*Lra\*O(7)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
