.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: diskusg.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/07/22 14:35:28 $
.\" 
...\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" 
...\" dskusg1.man
...\" nm_03.08.90
.TH diskusg 8
.SH NAME
\*Ldiskusg \*O - Generates disk accounting data by user ID
.iX "diskusg"
.iX "disk" "accounting"
.iX "accounting" "disk"
.iX "user ID"
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*Ldiskusg\*O [\*L-U \*Vnumber\*O] [\*L-sv\*O] [\*L-p \*Vpw_file\*O] [\*L-u \*Vufile\*O] [\*L-i\*O \*Vignlist\*O] [\*V file ...\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Ldiskusg\*O command generates intermediate disk accounting\*L
information and writes one record per user to standard output.
.SH "FLAGS"
.VL
.LI "\*L-U \*Vnumber\*O"
Sets the number of internal allocated user structures to \*Vnumber\*O, one
for each user. The default is 1000.
.LI "\*L-i \*Vignlist\*O"
Ignores the data in the \*Vignlist\*O
file system. The \*Vignlist\*O parameter specifies a list of file system
names that are separated with commas or are enclosed within quotation marks.
.iX "names" "file system"
.iX "file system names"
.LI "\*L-p \*Vpw_file\*O"
Uses \*Vpw_file\*O as the alternate password file
used to generate login names. The default password file is \*L/etc/passwd\*O.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Combines all records for a single user into a single record. Input
data must be already in the previously described format. In combination
with this option specified \*Vfile\*O arguments are regular
files containing data in the described output format. When \*Vfile\*O
is not specified, input data are taken from standard input.
.iX "file" "passwd"
.iX "password file"
.iX "single user"
.LI "\*L-u \*Vufile\*O"
Writes a record to \*Vufile\*O for each file that has changed its
user ID to no one. Each record consists of the special file name, the
inode number, and the user ID.
.LI "\*L-v\*O"
Writes a list of all files charged to user no one to standard error.
.LE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
The \*Ldiskusg\*O command generates intermediate disk accounting
information from data in files specified with the \*Vfile\*O
parameter, which is the name of the raw device the data files reside on, or
from
standard input, and writes one record per user
to standard output. This command is normally called from the \*Ldodisk\*O
shell procedure when the \*Lcron\*O daemon executes commands in
\%\*L/usr/spool/cron/crontabs\*O/[\*VFilename\*O]. The output, produced
when this command is executed, is redirected as input to the \*Lacctdisk\*O
command. When the \*L-o\*O flag is used with the \*Ldodisk\*O
command, the \*Lacctdusg\*O command replaces the \*Ldiskusg\*O
command.  Records output by this command provide the following output:
.iX "disk" "accounting, intermediate information"
.iX "accounting" "intermediate disk information"
.iX "command" "dodisk"
.iX "dodisk"
.iX "daemon" "cron"
.iX "cron"
.VL
.LI "\*L1  User ID\*O"
The assigned user number.
.LI "\*L2  Login name\*O"
The user login name.
.LI "\*L3  Number of blocks\*O"
The total number of disk blocks allocated to this user.
.LE
.iX "login name"
.iX "name" "login"
.iX "disk" "number of blocks"
.iX "blocks" "disk"
.iX "command" "acctdisk"
.iX "acctdisk"
.PP 
The output of this command becomes the input of the \*Lacctdisk\*O
command, which converts the information to a total accounting record.
This total accounting record is merged with other total accounting
records to produce a daily report.
.PP 
The \*Ldiskusg\*O command normally reads only the inodes of
file systems specified by the \*Vfile\*O parameter, which provides
the special file names of the raw devices. When you need a more thorough
accounting of disk usage, see the\*L acctdusg\*O command.
.iX "inodes"
.PP
This command is for local devices only.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
To generate daily disk accounting information, add a line similar to the
following to the \*L/usr/spool/cron/crontabs/adm\*O file:
.iS
0 2 * * 4 /usr/sbin/acct/dodisk
.iE
This is an example of a typical, periodically invoked command that the
\*Lcron\*O daemon reads and executes. The period is expressed by a
6-field entry having the format: \*Vmm hh daymon monyr wkday cmd\*O
(where numbers are integers and \*Vmm\*O has a value 0 through 59 expressing
minutes past the hour, \*Vhh\*O is the hour of the day in 24-hour
clock notation, \*Vdaymon\*O is day of the month, \*Vmonyr\*O is
\%month of the year, \*Vwkday\*O is the day or days of the week, where 0 is
Sunday and inclusive days are separated with a \*L-\*O (hyphen), and
\*Vcmd\*O is the command the \*Lcron\*O daemon must execute.
Unspecified times must use the \*L*\*O (asterisk) to define an empty field.
.PP
In this example, the \*Ldodisk\*O shell procedure runs at 02:00 
hours (\*L2\*O) every Thursday (\*L4\*O). Normally, the
\*Ldodisk\*O shell procedure calls the \*Ldiskusg\*O command to
redirect its output to a temporary file and then calls \*Lacctdisk\*O
to redirect disk usage records from the temporary file as input to the
\%\*L/var/adm/acct/nite\*O/[\*Vfilename\*O] file as output. The file
stored in the \%\*L/var/adm/acct/nite\*O subdirectory is a permanent
binary record of disk usage for the specified period.
.SH "FILES"
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/acct/diskusg\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LI "\*L/usr/include/sys/acct.h\c\*O, \*L/usr/include/utmp.h\*O"
Accounting header files that define formats for writing accounting files.
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O"
User database file.
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lacct\*O(8), \*Lacctmerg\*O(8), \*Lacctdusg\*O(8), 
\*Lacctdisk\*O(8), \*Ldodisk\*O(8), \*Lrunacct\*O(8)
.PP 
Functions: \*Lacct\*O(2)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
