.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: doconfig.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/28 17:45:26 $
.\" 
.\" doconfig reference page coded in RSML - Mark Angel 12/19/91
.TH doconfig 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ldoconfig\*O \- a program to aid system configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/doconfig\*O [ \*L-c\*V config_file\*O] [ \*L-d\*O ] [ \*L-e \*Ved_script\*O ]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
The \*Ldoconfig\*O program supports the following flags:
.VL
.LI "\-c"
The name of the existing configuration file (\*Vconfig_file\*O)
must be supplied without specifying the pathname.  The name of the
configuration file is usually the system name.
.sp
A new kernel is built using the existing
\*Vconfig_file\*O file and \*Vconfig_file\*L.list\*O file.
If there is no \*Vconfig_file\*L.list\*O file and a
\*L.product.list\*O file exists, \*Ldoconfig\*O will copy the
\*L.product.list\*O file to the \*Vconfig_file\*L.list\*O file.
These files must exist in the
\*L/sys/conf\*O directory.
.LI "\-d"
Specifies that only device special files are created.
.LI "\-e"
When specified, the configuration file is edited by the \*Led\*O
script before building the new kernel.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "doconfig program"
.iX "config program" "doconfig program"
.iX "doconfig program" "sizer program"
.iX "configuration file (syslog)" "building"
The \*Ldoconfig\*O shell script creates a new or modifies an existing
system configuration file for a new system kernel.  The script prompts
you for the configuration file name.
.PP
Whether the configuration file is built or not, the script then
allows you to edit, configure, and build until both the configuration
and the kernel build run without errors.  Additional runs of \*Ldoconfig\*O
can be made to tune the configuration further.
.PP
When new hardware is added to a system, the configuration file
should be updated to reflect the new system configuration.  When updating
an existing configuration file or creating a new configuration file with
\*Ldoconfig\*O, the system must be operating the generic kernel or new
hardware might not be found.  To successfully complete the \*Ldoconfig\*O
process, follow these steps:
.AL
.LI
Log on as root or become superuser. You must be superuser to execute the
\*Ldoconfig\*O script.
.LI
Save a copy of the running kernel. If there are disk space constraints,
you can save the kernel in a file system other than root. For example
to copy the kernel to the \*L/usr\*O
directory, issue the following command:
.iS
\*L# cp /vmunix /usr/vmunix.save\*O
.iE
.LI
Install the generic kernel as the running kernel and reboot
the system by using the \*Lcp\*O and \*Lshutdown\*O commands as follows:
.iS
\*L# cp /genvmunix /vmunix\*O
.br
\*L# /usr/sbin/shutdown -r +5 "Shutting down to build new kernel"\*O
.iE
.LI
Log on as root and shutdown the system to single-user mode as follows:
.iS
\*L# /usr/sbin/shutdown +1\*O
.iE
.LI
Mount the \*L/usr\*O file system:
.iS
\*L# mount /usr\*O
.iE
.LI
Run the \*Ldoconfig\*O script as follows:
.iS
\*L# /usr/sbin/doconfig\*O
.iE
.RS +6
The \*Ldoconfig\*O program then prompts you for information about your
system configuration.
.RE
.LI
Type yes when the \*Ldoconfig\*O program asks if you want to edit the
configuration file only if you need to make additional changes. The
\*Ldoconfig\*O program then invokes the editor specified by the
EDITOR environment variable.
.LI
The \*Ldoconfig\*O program builds the new kernel.
When the \*Ldoconfig\*O program finishes, it prints a message showing
the path and location of the new \*Lvmunix\*O kernel.
.LI
Move the new \*Lvmunix\*O (from the message noted above) to \*L/vmunix\*O
as follows:
.iS
\*L# mv /sys/DECOSF/vmunix /vmunix\*O
.iE
.LI
Reboot the system as follows:
.iS
\*L# /usr/sbin/shutdown -r now\*O
.iE
.RS +6
If the new \*Lvmunix\*O fails to boot, you can recover by using
the following procedure:
.AL
.LI
Boot the generic kernel (\*L/genvmunix\*O) to single-user mode using
the appropriate boot command for your system. If you are unsure of the
command syntax,
\*ESystem Administration\*O
provides information on booting your system.
.LI
Check all local file systems using the \*Lfsck\*O command with the
\*L-p\*O option as follows:
.iS
\*L# fsck -p\*O
.iE
.LI
Write-enable the \*Lroot\*O file system using the \*Lmount\*O
command with the \*L-u\*O option as follows:
.iS
\*L# mount -u /\*O
.iE
.LI
If you want to revert to the \*Lvmunix\*O kernel saved in
step 2, mount the \*L/usr\*O file system, copy the saved kernel to the
\*Lroot\*O file system, and reboot as follows:
.iS
\*L# mount /usr\*O
.br
\*L# cp /usr/vmunix.save /vmunix\*O
.br
\*L# shutdown -r now\*O
.iE
.RS +5
If you want to continue trying to build a bootable kernel, bring the
system up to multiuser mode by issuing a CTRL/D as follows:
.RE
.iS
\*L# CTRL/D\*O
.iE
.RS +5
Proceed to step 4.
.RE
.LE
.RE
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/sys/conf/\*Vconfig_file\*O
.PP
Specifies the system configuration file,
where \*Vconfig_file\*O is usually the name of the system.
.PP
\*L/sys/conf/\*Vconfig_file\*L.list\*O
.PP
Specifies the optional
configuration file that is used by kernel layered products to extend
the system configuration file.  This file can be modified to
remove kernel layered product entries by deleting or commenting out (#)
specific entries.
.PP
\*L/sys/conf/.product.list\*O
.PP
Specifies the optional configuration file
that is used by kernel layered products to
register their configuration file requirements.  This file is used
as the basis for the \*Vconfig_file\*L.list\*O file and should
not be modified.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Led\*O(1), \*Lconfig\*O(8)
.br
\*EInstallation Guide\*O
.br
\*ESystem Administration\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
