.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dump.8,v $ $Revision: 3.3.7.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/07 19:51:56 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
.\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail 
.\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" hah_21.07.90
.\" nm_07.08.90
.TH dump 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ldump\*O, \*Lrdump\*O \- Performs incremental file system dumps
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/dump\*O [\*Vkey\*O [\*Vargument\*O \&.\&.\&.] \*Vfile system\*O]
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/rdump\*O \*L-f \*Vdump_file\*O [\*Votherkey\*O [\*Vargument\*O \&...] \*Vfile system\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Ldump\*O command copies to the default \*L/dev/rmt0h\*O, or
to the alternate storage device specified with the \*L-f\*O flag,
all files changed after a certain date in the specified local
\*Vfile system\*O.
.sS
\*Lrdump\*O
.sE
.PP
The \*Lrdump\*O command copies to the \*Vdump_file\*O storage
device all files changed after a certain date in the specified
\*Vfile system\*O.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "backup" "file"
.iX "backup" "level"
.iX "default" "file system"
.iX "default" "storage medium"
.iX "device" "default storage"
.iX "disk" "read error"
.iX "dump"
.iX "dump" "level"
.iX "dump"
.iX "dump" "file system"
.iX "dump" "incremental"
.iX "end of dump"
.iX "epoch"
.iX "error" "disk read"
.iX "error" "tape open"
.iX "error" "tape write"
.iX "file system" "default"
.iX "file system" "dump"
.iX "file" "back up"
.iX "files" "storage"
.iX "incremental dump"
.iX "incremental file system dump"
.iX "level" "backup"
.iX "rdump"
.iX "remote storage"
.iX "storage" "default device"
.iX "storage" "files"
.iX "storage" "medium"
.iX "storage" "remote"
.iX "tape open error"
.iX "tape write error"
.iX "time-stamp" "standard"
The \*Ldump\*O and \*Lrdump\*O commands are used to dump local
files from a single file system defined by the \*Vfile system\*O parameter
to a local or remote storage device, respectively, where \*Vfile system\*O
contains the files you want to back up.
.PP
The \*Ldump\*O and \*Lrdump\*O commands perform similar functions with
respect to storage of files contained in the named \*Vfile system\*O.
However, the \*Lrdump\*O command requires that the \*L-f\*O flag be
used with any \*Votherkey\*O and the special \*Vdump_file\*O parameters.
.PP
Both commands copy all files in \*Vfile system\*O whose dump level is
less than a specified value, and that have changed after a specified
date to the default storage device or to an alternate storage device.
The dump level and date are specified in the local
\*L/etc/dumpdates\*O file.  The \*Vkey\*O and \*Vargument\*O parameters
specify one or more options that may be used to write files to
the storage medium.  Characters permitted by the \*Vkey\*O parameter
are similar to flags that consist of any of the characters
\*L0123456789bcdfnsuwBNSTW\*O only, which may be used in any logical
combination, but must be preceded with the \*L-\*O (dash) character;
the \*Vargument\*O parameter specifies other options that tell these
\*Ldump\*O and \*Lrdump\*O processes what to do.  These options are
described in the FLAGS section.  Not all
\*Vkeys\*O permit \*Vargument\*O options to be specified.
.PP
The \*L/etc/dumpdates\*O file consists of 3-column record lines that
specify the \*Vfile system\*O name, a dump level, and a standard
time-stamp.  These processes enter a time-stamp into the
\*Vfile system\*O record after each file in the named \*Vfile system\*O
is successfully backed up.  The 3-column record in the
\*L/etc/dumpdates\*O file contains the following information:
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L1  File system name\*O"
Lists the \*Vfile system\*O device name.
.LI "\*L2  Dump level\*O"
This is an integer between 1 and 9 that defines a hierarchy for files
in \*Vfile system\*O.  This hierarchy indicates which files should be
written to the storage medium when the \*Ldump\*O or \*Lrdump\*O
command is executed.  Level 0 defines all the files in
\*Vfile system\*O.  When a level is assigned, all files equal to and
less than that level in \*Vfile system\*O are backed up.
.LI "\*L3  Time-stamp\*O"
The time-stamp tells the \*Ldump\*O or \*Lrdump\*O process when
\*Vfile system\*O had its last backup.  This time-stamp is written by the
\*Ldump\*O or \*Lrdump\*O process after the specified \*Vfile system\*O
backup is completed.  When there is no time-stamp, the \*Ldump\*O or
\*Lrdump\*O process assumes the beginning of time (called the Epoch).
.LE
.PP
The \*L/etc/dumpdates\*O file is written in ASCII and consists of a
single record per line.  This file may be edited to change any record
field, when necessary.
.\".PP 
.\"When no \*Vargument\*O is specified, \*Vkey\*O is assumed to be
.\"\*L-9u\*O so that all files in the default file system named
.\"\*L/dev/rrz0g\*O, which were modified since the last dump, are dumped
.\"to the default storage medium named \*L/dev/rmt0h\*O.
.PP
Either process requires operator intervention when any of
the following conditions occur: end-of-tape, end-of-dump, tape-write error,
tape-open error, or when the number of disk-read errors is greater than
32. In addition to alerting all operators specified by the \*L-n\*O
\*Vkey\*O, these processes interact with an operator at the terminal from
which \*Ldump\*O or \*Lrdump\*O was invoked when either program can no
longer proceed.
.PP
All queries written to standard output by the \*Ldump\*O or
\*Lrdump\*O process must be answered by typing \*Lyes\*O or \*Lno\*O to the
standard input.
.PP
Because a dump to any storage medium requires excessive time to
process, each process checks itself at the start of each storage
volume.  In many instances, the default dump performance can be
improved by modifying the number of blocks per write.  For additional
information, see the description for the \*L-b\*O switch in the FLAGS
section.
.PP
When a volume write fails, \*Ldump\*O or \*Lrdump\*O restarts
itself from the last successful checkpoint, with operator permission,
after the currently written storage medium is properly removed and
another (replacement) storage medium has been mounted.
.PP
These processes also tell an operator what is going on at periodic
intervals when writing to the storage medium.  This information
consists of somewhat conservative estimates for the number of blocks
to write, the number of storage media that must be used for the dump,
the time to complete the dump, and the time until the storage medium
must be replaced with another one to complete the dump.  Output is
verbose, so that others know that the terminal controlling \*Ldump\*O
is busy.  When processing takes place, the following conditions apply:
.PP
.ML
.LI
Fewer than 32 read errors during a \*Ldump\*O or \*Lrdump\*O tape-dump
process are ignored.  Each renewal of the storage medium requires a
new dump process, so that parent processes for storage media already
written are in effect until the entire storage medium is written.
.LI
When the \*Ldump\*O command has the \*LW\*O or \*Lw\*O \*Vkey\*O set, no
records are written to the standard output for a \*Vfile system\*O
that has no current record in the \*L/etc/dumpdates\*O file, even when
listed in the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file.
.LI
When no \*Vargument\*O is specified, the \*Vkey\*O parameter is
assumed to be \*L-9u\*O so that the default file system is dumped to a
default storage medium named \*L/dev/rmt0h\*O (usually a tape).
.LE
.PP
\*Ldump\*O
.PP
The \*Ldump\*O command copies to the default \*L/dev/rmt0h\*O, or
to the alternate storage device specified with the \*L-f\*O flag,
all files changed after a certain date in the specified local
\*Vfile system\*O.
.PP
\*Lrdump\*O
.PP
The \*Lrdump\*O command copies to the \*Vdump_file\*O storage
device all files changed after a certain date in the specified
\*Vfile system\*O. This command is similar in operation to \*Ldump\*O,
except that the \*L-f\*O flag is always specified (see the FLAGS section)
together with any \*Votherkey\*O you may wish to specify.  The
\*Vdump_file\*O parameter should always be specified by machine name and
device name as \*Vmachine\*O:\*Vdevice name\*O.
.PP
The \*Lrdump\*O command starts remote server \*L/usr/sbin/rmt\*O or
\*L/etc/rmt\*O on the client machine to access the storage medium.
.PP
Another vendor's \*Lrdump\*O command may fail because \*Lrmt\*O is
not located in \*L/etc\*O.  To avoid this
problem, it may be necessary to provide a symbolic link on the machine pointing to \*L/usr/sbin/rmt\*O, as shown in the following example:
.iS
ln -s /usr/sbin/rmt /etc/rmt
.iE
.iX "volume" "storage"
.iX "storage volume"
.iX "block" "storage"
.iX "storage blocks"
.iX "process" "tape dump"
.iX "server" "remote"
.iX "backup" "write density"
.iX "write density" "backup"
.iX "tape" "backup"
.iX "backup" "tape"
.iX "drive" "default tape"
.iX "default" "tape drive"
.iX "machine" "remote"
.iX "device" "remote"
.iX "remote" "device"
.iX "remote" "machine"
.iX "wall"
.iX "file" "etc/group"
.iX "tape" "default size"
.iX "default" "tape size"
.iX "dump" "tape size"
.iX "tape" "dump size"
.iX "file" "etc/fstab"
.iX "device" "block mode"
.iX "block mode device"
.iX "tape" "rewind"
.iX "rewind" "tape"
.iX "backup" "output file size"
.iX "file" "backup tape size"
.iX "tower of Hanoi"
.PP
The \*Ldump\*O command exits with 0 status on success.
Startup errors are indicated with an exit code of 1;
abnormal termination is indicated with an exit code of 3.
.SH "FLAGS"
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L-0-9\*O"
Specifies the dump level.  All files modified since the last time-stamp
whose names are currently stored in the \*L/etc/dumpdates\*O file for
a named \*Vfile system\*O at levels less than the one specified are
dumped to tape.  When no time-stamp entry is defined for a dump level,
the Epoch is assumed; thus, the value \*L-0\*O for this \*Vkey\*O
causes the entire file system to be dumped to the storage medium.
.LI "\*L-b\*O \*Vblocks_per_write\*O"
Specifies the number of blocks in 1024 bytes to write to the storage
medium.  The default write block value is 10 blocks (or 10 kilobytes).
In many instances, increasing the number of blocks per write will
increase your dump performance.  For optimal results on Digital's
platform, use a value that is greater than or equal to 32, is a multiple of 4,
and is less than 65.
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
The dump medium is a not a 9-track cartridge tape.
.LI "\*L-d \*O\*Vdensity\*O"
Specifies the write density of the storage medium.  The \*Vdensity\*O
parameter is expressed in bits per inch (bpi). This information is used in
calculating the amount of medium used per each volume of the storage
medium.  For the \*Ldump\*O command, the density will be automatically
provided by Digital base system supported devices.  Otherwise, the default
write density for the \*Ldump\*O and \*Lrdump\*O commands is 1600 bpi.
.LI "\*L-f \*O\*Vdump_file\*O"
Writes the dump to the \*Vdump_file\*O storage device instead
of the default tape drive.  When the name of \*Vdump_file\*O is \*L\-\*O
(dash), the \*Ldump\*O process writes to standard output.  When  the  name
of the \*Vdump_file\*O is \*L/dev/nrmt*\*O, the dump process will enable the
\*L-N\*O flag.
.sp
When the \*Lrdump\*O command is invoked, the \*Vdump_file\*O parameter must
specify both the remote machine and the storage device in the format
\*Vmachine\*O:\*Vdevice\*O, where \*Vmachine\*O is the name or reference
designation of the host machine and \*Vdevice\*O is the name or reference
designation of the storage device.
.LI "\*L-L \*O\*Vdump_label\*O"
Specifies the label of the dump to be displayed during restoration.  The
default label is "No Label".  The label can be a maximum of 16 characters.
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Notifies, by means of a command similar to \*Lwall\*O(1), all operators
in the group named \*Loperator\*O, which is specified in the
\*L/etc/group\*O file whenever \*Ldump\*O or \*Lrdump\*O requires operator
attention (to change a tape, for example).
.LI "\*L-s \*O\*Vsize\*O"
Specifies the size of a dump tape.  The \*Vsize\*O parameter is
expressed in feet.  When the amount of tape specified by \*Vsize\*O has
been written, either process waits for the  current reel to be changed
(see the \*L-n\*O flag). For the \*Ldump\*O command, the density will be
automatically provided by Digital base system supported devices.  Otherwise,
the default tape size for the \*Ldump\*O and \*Lrdump\*O commands is 2300
feet.
.LI "\*L-u\*O"
Writes the time of the beginning of the dump as the time-stamp entry in
the \*L/etc/dumpdates\*O file for the \*Vfile system\*O record when the dump
successfully completes.
.LI "\*L-w\*O"
Tells an operator what file systems must be dumped to the storage
device.  This information is obtained from the \*L/etc/dumpdates\*O
and \*L/etc/fstab\*O files.  The \*L-w\*O \*Vkey\*O tells either
process to print to the standard output a record for each
\*Vfile system\*O listed in the \*L/etc/dumpdates\*O file.
.LI "\*L-B\*O"
Specifies a block-mode device.  For the \*Ldump\*O command, the estimated
calculations will be based on the device's storage capacity instead of density
and size.
.LI "\*L-E\*O"
Prints the estimated size of the dump file in 1-kilobyte blocks and the
estimated number of volumes that make up the dump file, only.
The dump file will be opened and closed, but nothing will be
written to it.  The information will be output through standard error and will have a format like the following:
.iS
23382 blocks, 0.04 volumes
.iE
.sp
The parameter placement will be preserved, but the exact words "blocks,"
and "volumes" are not guaranteed.  Refer to the EXAMPLES section for further
information.
.LI "\*L-N\*O"
Disables the rewinding of the tape and placing the tape unit off line after
completing the dump session.  By default, when the \*Ldump\*O command
finishes backing up a file system it rewinds the tape and takes it
off line.  For some tape subsystems, this tape will be ejected from the
unit.  The \*L-N\*O flag is the default when the  \*Vdump_file\*O parameter
is \*L/dev/nrmt*\*O.
.LI "\*L-S\*O \*Vfull_tape_size\*O"
Specifies output file size in feet.  When the \*L-B\*O flag is used, the
\*Vfull_tape_size\*O parameter specifies the output file size in number of
1024-byte blocks.
.LI "\*L-T \*O\*Vtape_number\*O"
Specifies a tape number, which is used in the dialog with the operator as
the number of the first tape.
.LI "\*L-W\c\*O"
Similar to \*L-w\*O, but for any \*Vfile system\*O listed in the
\*L/etc/dumpdates\*O file, prints an output record and highlights this record
with the \*L>\*O (greater than) character, all files that must be dumped.
When \*L-W\*O is specified, all other options are ignored and \*Ldump\*O
exits immediately.
.LE
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note
.SH NOTES
.PP
.AL
.LI
Estimates for \*Ldump\*O and \*Lrdump\*O.
.IP
The information in this note is specific to Digital tape devices and the
densities and sizes they use under \*Lrdump\*O.
.sp
The size and density information is used to estimate the number of volumes
required for the current \*Ldump\*O or \*Lrdump\*O request.  Some of the
factors that will effect the estimate calculation include the following:
.ML
.LI
Track format
.LI
Compression
.LI
Interrecord gap size
.LI
Writing optimization technologies
.LI
Appending to a tape
.LE
.IP
The estimate calculation does not take these factors into account and can
result in very large (100-500%) miscalculations.  The estimates can be
customized by adjusting the size in feet (\*L-s\*O) or size in 1024-byte
block (\*L-BS\*O) variables to the desired results.  The
default values for \*L/dev/rmt*h\*O devices used in the dump estimate
calculation are shown in the following table:
.nP
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB cfHB cfHB cfHB
c c c c
l r r r .
_
.sp 4p
Tape Device@Density@Size@Size
@(bpi)@(feet)@(1024-byte blocks)
.sp 4p
_
.sp 6p
TA78@6250@1925@141056
.sp 6p
TA79@6250@1925@141056
.sp 6p
TA81@6250@1925@141056
.sp 6p
TA90@38000@436@194560
.sp 6p
TA91@38000@436@194560
.sp 6p
TF30@6667@1182@92416
.sp 6p
TF70@10000@2457@287948
.sp 6p
TF70L@10000@2457@287948
.sp 6p
TK50@6667@1182@92416
.sp 6p
TK70@10000@2457@287948
.sp 6p
TKZ09@54000@7456@4718592
.sp 6p
TLZ04@61000@1584@1132646
.sp 6p
TLZ06@61000@2640@1887436
.sp 6p
TS05@1600@2075@38912
.sp 6p
TU77@1600@2075@38912
.sp 6p
TU78@1600@2075@38912
.sp 6p
TU80@1600@2075@38912
.sp 6p
TU81@1600@2075@38912
.sp 6p
TU81E@1600@2075@38912
.sp 6p
TZ05@1600@2075@38912
.sp 6p
TZ07@1600@2075@38912
.sp 6p
TZ30@6667@1182@92416
.sp 6p
TZ85@42500@4925@2453299
.sp 6p
TZ857@42500@4925@2453299
.sp 6p
TZK08@54000@3276@2073600
.sp 6p
TZK10@16000@2580@483840
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.sp 6p
.LI
The \*Lrdump\*O command starts the remote server \*L/usr/sbin/rmt\*O on
the client machine to access the storage medium.  If the \*Lrdump\*O
command cannot find \*L/usr/sbin/rmt\*O, it will try \*L/etc/rmt\*O and
\*Lrmt\*O.
.LI
For proper operation, the server's \*L/.rhosts\*O file must contain the name or
reference designation of the client's machine.
.LE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
.AL
.LI
To perform a full level 0 dump, enter a command similar to the following:
.iS
dump -0un -f /dev/rmt1h -b 32 /fs1
.iE
.IP
In this example, \*L0\*O specifies that all files in the file system \*Vfs1\*O
will be dumped to \*L/dev/rmt1h\*O; \*Lu\*O specifies \*Ldump\*O to update the
\*L/etc/dumpdates\*O file after a successful dump of the file system; and
\*Ln\*O specifies that operators will be notified.  The estimate calculation
will be based upon the tape device defaults.  The write block size is set to 32 kilobytes.
.LI
To dump a local file system to a remote storage tape, enter a command similar
to the following:
.iS
rdump -3u -f tape_server:/dev/rmt1h /fs1
.iE
.IP
In this example, \*L3\*O specifies the dump level of all files in the
file system \*V/fs1\*O that will be dumped to tape \*L/dev/rmt1h\*O
on system \*Vtape_server\*O, and \*Lu\*O specifies the dump to update the
\*L/etc/dumpdates\*O file after a successful dump of the file system.  The
estimated calculation will be based on the \*Lrdump\*O defaults.  The write
block size will be the default.
.LI
To obtain an estimated number of blocks and volumes for the current dump
session, enter the following:
.iS
dump -0Ef /dev/rmt1h /usr
.iE
The system displays output similar to the following:
.iS
358696 blocks, 0.19 volumes
.iE
.LI
The following examples show alternative ways of scheduling backups.
Select the backup schedule that best fits your needs.
.ML
.LI
\f(HB7-day incremental schedule\fP
.IP
The following schedule is a 7-day incremental schedule.  This schedule is
useful for small-to-medium storage systems.  The basic algorithm is n,
n+1, ...  The number of dump files to perform a full restore can vary
from 1 to 7.  The following is an example of a 28-day schedule:
.iS
        0  1  2  3  4  5  6
        0  1  2  3  4  5  6
        0  1  2  3  4  5  6
        0  1  2  3  4  5  6
.iE
.ne 10
.LI
\f(HB7-day alternative differential schedule\fP
.IP
The following schedule is a 7-day alternative differential schedule.  This
schedule is useful for small-to-medium storage systems.  The basic
algorithm is n-1, n+3, ...  The number of dump files to perform a full
restore can vary from 1 to 4.  The following is an example of a 28-day
schedule:
.iS
        0  5  4  7  6  9  8
        0  5  4  7  6  9  8
        0  5  4  7  6  9  8
        0  5  4  7  6  9  8
.iE
.LI
\f(HB28-day alternative differential schedule\fP
.IP
The following schedule is a 28-day alternative differential schedule.  This
schedule is useful for small-to-large storage systems.  The algorithm
combines the 7-day incremental and the 7-day alternative differential
schedules.  The number of dump files to perform a full restore can vary from
1 to 7.
The following is an example of a 28-day schedule:
.iS
        0  5  4  7  6  9  8
        1  5  4  7  6  9  8
        2  5  4  7  6  9  8
        3  5  4  7  6  9  8
.iE
This schedule limits full dumps to once a month.  Therefore, it is
possible to lose a month's worth of data.  Alternative approaches to address
this problem might include duplicating the full tape or doing full
backups twice a month instead of once a month.
.LE
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 20
.LI "\*L/sbin/dump\*O"
The \*Ldump\*O command with static libraries.
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/dump\*O"
The \*Ldump\*O command with shared libraries.
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/rmt\*O"
Used by the \*Lrdump\*O remote tape access program.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lrestore\*O(8), \*Lrrestore\*O(8), \*Lrmt\*O(8)
.iX "default" "file system"
.iX "system" "files" "default"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
