.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dumpfs.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:15:57 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\" 
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" 
.\" @(#)dumpfs.8	6.1 (Berkeley) 4/27/85
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.TH dumpfs 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ldumpfs\*O \- Dump UFS file system information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS 
\*L/usr/sbin/dumpfs \*Vfilesystem\*L \&.\&.\&. | \*Vdevice\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "dumpfs"
.PP 
The
\*Ldumpfs\*O
command
prints out the super block and cylinder group information
for the specified UFS file system(s) or special device.
The listing is very long and detailed.  This
command is useful for getting information about the
file system block size and minimum
free space percentage, for example.  If the file system is mounted, you
must specify the raw device.  The following is an example of the entries in
an \*L/etc/fstab\*O file:
.PP 
\*C/dev/rz8a	/	ufs  rw  1 1
.br
\*C/dev/rz8g    /       ufs  rw  1 2
.br
\*C/dev/rz8b    /       ufs  sw  1 2
.PP
To see the information on the \*L/usr\*O file system (which is mounted),
enter the following command:
.PP
\*Ldumpfs /dev/rrz8g\*O
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/dumpfs\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lfsck\*O(8), \*Lnewfs\*O(8), \*Ltunefs\*O(8)
.PP 
Files:  \*Ldisktab\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
