.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dxpresto.8X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/29 17:20:58 $
.\" 
.TH dxpresto 8X
.SH NAME
\*Ldxpresto\*O \- Graphically displays Prestoserve state and statistics.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/bin/X11/dxpresto\*O [\-\*Vflags\*O] [\*Vhostname\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-bd \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the window's border (color displays only).
The default is black.
.LI "\*L\-bg \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the window's background (color displays only).
The default is white.
.LI "\*L\-d \*Vdispname\*O"
Specifies the display screen on which \*Ldxpresto\*O displays its window.
If the display flag is not specified, \*Ldxpresto\*O uses the display
screen specified by your DISPLAY environment variable.  The display variable
has the format \*Vhostname\*L:\*Vnumber\*O.  Using two colons (::) instead
of one (:) indicates that DECnet is to be used for transport.
The default is :0.  For more information, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.LI "\*L\-display \*Vdispname\*O"
This flag is the same as the \*L\-d\*O flag.
.LI "\*L\-fg \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the text (color displays only).  The default is black.
.LI "\*L\-geometry"
Specifies the width, length, and location of the \*Ldxpresto\*O window.
If the geometry flag is not specified, \*Ldxpresto\*O uses default values.
The geometry flag has the format
\*L=\*O[\*Vwidth\*O][x\*Vlength\*O][\*Vx\*O][\*Vy\*O].
For more information about the screen coordinate system, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "dxpresto command"
The \*Ldxpresto\*O command is an X Window System application that
graphically displays a machine's Prestoserve state and statistics.
The \*Ldxpresto\*O command uses a Remote Procedure Call (RPC) protocol
to communicate with the machine being monitored.  You use the \*Ldxpresto\*O
command to provide general information about Prestoserve and to help
manage Prestoserve.  Also, you can use the command to demonstrate the
efficacy of the Prestoserve software.
.PP
Use the \*Vhostname\*O variable to specify the machine that you want to
monitor; the machine must be running the Prestoserve software.  If
\*Vhostname\*O is not specified, the local machine running the Prestoserve
software is monitored.  If \*Vhostname\*O is not specified and the local
machine is not running the Prestoserve software, the \*Ldxpresto\*O
window opens but it is not functional until you enter the name of a host
running the Prestoserve software in the Host field.
.PP
.ce 1
\*LNote\*O
.sp 6p
.in 1
The machine that you want to monitor must be running the \*Lprestoctl_svc\*O
daemon.  Also, if you want to be able to enable or disable Prestoserve
on the machine, it must be running the \*Lprestoctl_svc\*O daemon with the
\*L\-n\*O flag.
.sp
The \*Lportmap\*O daemon must be running if you want to use \*Ldxpresto\*O .
.sp 6p
.in
.PP
Because \*Ldxpresto\*O is an X Window System application, your DISPLAY
environmental variable must be set to a machine that is an X Server.
For more information, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.SS dxpresto Window
The \*Ldxpresto window contains the following information:
.VL 4m
.LI "Host field"
Shows the name of the host that you are monitoring.  You type
a host name in the field and hit the Return key to monitor that host.
.LI "Presto State buttons"
Show the Prestoserve state, either Enabled (UP), Disabled (DOWN), or Error
(ERROR).  If the machine being monitored is running the \*Lprestoctl_svc\*O
daemon with the \*L\-n\*O flag, you can change the machine's Prestoserve
state to either Enabled (UP) or Disabled (DOWN) by clicking on the
appropriate button.  You cannot click on the Error button; contact
the server administrator or the server hardware Field Service representative
if the Error button is enabled.
.LI "Sample Interval slider"
Displays the interval of time in seconds between Prestoserve queries and
allows you to change that interval.  When you invoke the \*Ldxpresto\*O
command, the default sample interval is 5; therefore Prestoserve information
is gathered every five seconds.  For example, if you want Prestoserve
queried more often, move the slider to the left and click on MB1 until
2 appears; Prestoserve is then queried every two seconds.
.LI "Time since last Enable field"
Shows the time since Prestoserve was last enabled.  The time is displayed in
hours, minutes, and seconds.  The total number of seconds is also shown.
.LI "Battery icons"
Show the state of the Prestoserve backup battery system.  An intact battery
icon with the word ok indicates that the battery has sufficient power.
An intact battery icon with the word low indicates that the battery's
power is low.  A broken battery icon indicates that the battery is disabled.
Prestoserve goes into the ERROR state when the backup battery power
falls below a minimum amount.  Contact the server administrator or the
server hardware Field Service representative if a battery is low or disabled.
.LI "Size field"
Displays the number of Kbytes of nonvolatile memory that the Prestoserve
cache is utilizing.  Note that Prestoserve can utilize less than the
default maximum size of its Prestoserve cache if you changed the cache
size with the \*Lpresto \-s\*O command.
.LI "Display Cache Utilization buttons"
Allows you to display or to not display graphs that demonstrate how the
Prestoserve cache is being utilized.
.LI "Display Cache Statistics buttons"
Allows you to display or to not display the Prestoserve cache statistics table.
.LI "Exit button"
Allows you to exit from \*Ldxpresto\*O.
.LI "Message bar"
Displays error messages and informational messages for both Prestoserve and
the \*Ldxpresto\*O command.  For example, if the \*Lprestoctl_svc\*O
daemon with the \*L\-n\*O flag is not running on the machine you are
monitoring, a message is displayed indicating that changes to Prestoserve
operation are not allowed.
.IP
Some error messages, such as those indicating RPC communication failure,
are displayed on the terminal from which you invoked the \*Ldxpresto\*O
command.
.LE
.SS Cache Utilization Graphs
If you enable the Display Cache Utilization graphs, the following is displayed:
.VL 4m
.LI "Presto buffers status bar graph"
Shows how the Prestoserve cache operations are distributed among
the four Prestoserve buffer states:  dirty, clean, inval, and active.
The vertical axis shows the maximum number of objects or disk blocks
that the entire Prestoserve cache can contain.  The sum of the four bars is
the total number of buffers used in the Prestoserve cache.
Note that the size of the Prestoserve cache can be changed by using the
\*Lpresto \-s\*O command.
.LI "Writes per second trend line graph"
Shows a recent history of the average number of writes per second
over the time intervals that are determined by the sample interval.
.IP
Each point in the horizontal axis represents a sample time interval
as determined by the sample interval; the maximum number of samples
that can be shown is 210.  When you reach the maximum number of samples,
the graph shifts to the left so you can see at least the last 105
samples, which is half the maximum number of samples.  If you choose 5
as the sample interval, Prestoserve is queried every five seconds;
therefore it takes 1050 (5 x 210) seconds to obtain the maximum of 210 samples.
.IP
The vertical axis shows the average number of writes performed per
second within the sample time interval as determined by the sample interval.
.IP
For example, if you choose 2 as the sample interval, Prestoserve is
queried every two seconds, and each point in the graph shows the average
number of writes performed within the interval of two seconds.  If the
graph shows that an average of 5 writes per second were performed within
two seconds, Prestoserve actually performed 10 writes within those two
seconds.  The calculation is:
.IP
.oS
 5 writes
---------- x 2 sec = 10 writes
   sec
.oE
.IP
If you change hosts, the Writes per second graph displays a vertical
line of dashes to distinguish the new host's information from the
previous host's information.
.LI "Hits per second trend line graph"
Shows a recent history of the average number of Prestoserve cache hits
per second over the time intervals that are determined by the sample interval.
The Prestoserve cache hits represent the total number of clean and dirty
read and write hits (blocks that match blocks already in the cache).
.IP
Each point in the horizontal axis represents a sample time interval
as determined by the sample interval;
the maximum number of samples that can be shown is 210.
When you reach the maximum number of samples, the graph shifts to the
left so you can see at least the last 105 samples, which is half the
maximum number of samples.  If you choose 2 as the sample interval,
Prestoserve is queried every two seconds; therefore it takes
420 (2 x 210) seconds to obtain the maximum of 210 samples.
.IP
The vertical axis shows the average number of hits performed per
second within the sample time interval as determined by the sample interval.
.IP
For example, if you choose 10 as the sample interval, Prestoserve is
queried every 10 seconds, and each point in the graph shows the average
number of hits performed within the interval of 10 seconds.  If the graph
shows that an average of 2 hits per second were performed within 10
seconds, Prestoserve actually performed 20 writes within those 10 seconds.
The calculation is:
.IP
.oS
  2 hits
---------- x 10 sec = 20 hits
   sec
.oE
.IP
If you change hosts, the Hits per second graph displays a vertical line
of dashes to distinguish the new host's information from the previous
host's information.
.LE
.SS Cache Statistics Table
If you enable the Display Cache Statistics table, the following is displayed:
.VL 4m
.LI "Since last Enable button"
Allows you to display Prestoserve statistics since Prestoserve
was last enabled.  This is useful when you want to determine how
Prestoserve performs over a long period of time.
.LI "Since last Sample button"
Allows you to display the Prestoserve statistics for each sample
time interval as determined by the Sample Interval
slider.  If no Prestoserve activity occurs during the time interval,
the numbers in the statistics table are zero.  For example, if the
Sample Interval slider is set to 5 and the Since last Sample
button is enabled, the statistics table shows the Prestoserve
statistics for each interval of five seconds.
.LI "Since last Zero button"
Allows you to display Prestoserve statistics since you clicked on the Zero
button. This button allows you to determine how Prestoserve performs over
a specific period of time that you can set by using the Zero button.
.LI "Zero button"
Allows you to set a time reference for the Prestoserve statistics table.
If you click on the Zero button and, at a later time, click on the Since
last Zero button, the table displays the Prestoserve statistics since
you clicked on the Zero button.
.LI "Prestoserve statistics table"
Shows information similar to the information that is displayed when you
use the \*Lpresto \-p\*O command.  For each Prestoserve cache read or write
operation, Prestoserve increments an appropriate counter.  The table shows:
.ML
.LI
The Write Cache Efficiency, which the ratio of write
dirty hits to the number of writes copied into the Prestoserve cache
.LI
The Count, which is the sum of the clean hits, dirty hits, and allocations,
and passes
.LI
The Hit rate percentage, which is the ratio of clean hits
and dirty hits to the total count
.LI
The Clean hits counter, which is the number of hits on the clean buffers
.LI
The Dirty hits counter, which is the number of hits on the dirty buffers
(each dirty hit represents a physical disk write that was avoided entirely)
.LI
The Allocations counter, which is the number of new buffers that
had to be allocated for disk block images
.LI
The passes counter, which is the number of I/O operations that
Prestoserve passed directly to the actual device driver
.LE
.LE
.SH X DEFAULTS
.PP
The \*Ldxpresto\*O application uses the values in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O
file when you logged in and uses the appropriate resource specification
to customize the appearance or characteristics of its displayed \*Ldxpresto\*O
window.  The format for a resource specification in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O
file is:
.PP
.sS
[\*Vname\*O*]\*Vresource\*L:  \*Vvalue\*O
.sE
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Specifies the application name or the name string that restricts the
resource assignment to that application or to a component of an application.
If this argument is not specified, the resource assignment is globally
available to all X applications.
.LI "\*Vresource\*O"
Specifies the resource.
.LI "\*Vvalue\*O"
Specifies the value that is to be assigned to the resource.
.LE
.PP
For more information, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.PP
Because each toolkit-based application can consist of a combination of
widgets (for example, push buttons and a scroll bar), you can form the
name string by adding widget class and name identifiers to the string.
For further information about adding class and name identifiers, see
\*LX\*O(1X).
.PP
For \*Ldxpresto\*O, the available name identifiers are:
.VL 4m
.LI "graph_parent"
The dialog box containing all of the graphs
.LI "dirty_graph"
The graph displaying dirty buffers
.LI "clean_graph"
The graph displaying clean buffers
.LI "inval_graph"
The graph displaying inval buffers
.LI "active_graph"
The graph displaying active buffers
.LI "write_graph"
The graph displaying cache write history
.LI "hit_graph"
The graph displaying cache hit history
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following is an example of the suggested resource values:
.PP
.oS
DXpresto*background:                    darkslategray
DXpresto*foreground:                    wheat1
DXpresto*borderColor:                   gold3
DXpresto*graph_parent*borderColor:      firebrick
DXpresto*dirty_graph*highlight:         gold3
DXpresto*dirty_graph*background:        black
DXpresto*clean_graph*highlight:         gold3
DXpresto*clean_graph*background:        black
DXpresto*inval_graph*highlight:         gold3
DXpresto*inval_graph*background:        black
DXpresto*active_graph*highlight:        gold3
DXpresto*active_graph*background:       black
DXpresto*write_graph*highlight:         gold3
DXpresto*write_graph*background:        black
DXpresto*hit_graph*highlight:           gold3
DXpresto*hit_graph*background:          black
DXpresto*topShadowColor:                gold2
DXpresto*bottomShadowColor:             gold4
DXpresto*armColor:                      gold3
DXpresto*selectColor:                   gold3
DXpresto*presto_on.selectColor:         green
DXpresto*presto_off.selectColor:        yellow
DXpresto*presto_error.selectColor:      red
.oE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/X11/uid/dxpresto.uid"
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/DXpresto"
.LI "\*L~/.Xdefaults\*O"
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LX\*O(1X),
\*Ldxsession\*O(1X),
\*Lpresto\*O(7),
\*Lportmap\*O(8),
\*Lpresto\*O(8),
\*Lprestoctl_svc\*O(8)
.PP
\*VGuide to Prestoserve\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
