.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: edquota.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/29 19:28:53 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\" 
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.TH edquota 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ledquota\*O \- Edits user quotas
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/edquota\*O [\*L\-p\*O \*Vproto_user\*O] [\*L\-u\*O] \*Vusername\*O \&...
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/edquota\*O [\*L\-p\*O \*Vproto_group\*O] \*L\-g\*O \*Vgroupname\*O \&...
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/edquota\*O [\*L\-u\*O | \*L\-g\*O] \*L\-t\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "edquota command"
.iX "editing user quotas"
.iX "user" "quotas"
.iX "quotas, user"
The \*Ledquota\*O command is a quota editor.
.PP
For each user or group, the program creates a temporary file with an
ASCII representation of the current disk quotas for that user or group,
then invokes an editor that you use to modify the file.  The \*Lvi\*O
editor is invoked by default.  To override the default, specify
a different editor for the \*LEDITOR\*O environment variable in your
login file.
.PP
Note that disk quotas are given in block sizes of 1024 byte blocks.
.PP
Using the editor, you can then modify quotas, add new quotas, and so on.
Setting a quota to \*L0\*O (zero) indicates that no quota should be imposed.
Setting a hard limit to \*L1\*O (one) indicates that no allocations should
be permitted.  Setting a soft limit to \*L1\*O (one) with a hard limit
of \*L0\*O (zero) indicates that allocations should be permitted on
only a temporary basis (see the \*L\-t\*O flag).
The current usage information in the file is for informational purposes;
only the hard and soft limits can be changed.
.PP
For each filesystem, the program creates a temporary file with an
ASCII representation of the current grace period for that user or group,
then invokes an editor that you use to modify the grace period.
The grace period may be specified in days, hours, minutes, or seconds.
Setting a grace period to \*L0\*O (zero) indicates that the default
grace period should be imposed.  Setting a grace period to \*L1\*O second
indicates that no grace period should be granted.
When you exit the editor, \*Ledquota\*O
reads the temporary file and modifies the \*Lquota.user\*O
and \*Lquota.group\*O files for the target filesystem to reflect the
changes made.
.PP
Changes in grace periods take effect immediately, unless a grace
period is currently in effect.  For example, let's assume that a user exceeds
a soft limit and receives a grace period of 7 days.  A subsequent
change to a grace period of 1 day will not affect the user's
already-established grace period, unless the user drops below
the soft limit and exceeds it once again.  The default grace
period for a filesystem is specified in
the \*Lquota.user\*O and \*Lquota.group\*O files for the target filesystem.
.PP
Only a user
who is root
can edit quotas.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L\-g\*O"
Edits the quotas of one or more groups, specified by \*Vgroupname\*O on
the command line.  When used with \*L\-t\*O, changes the grace period for all
filesystems with group quotas specified in \*L/etc/fstab\*O.
.LI "\*L\-p\*O \*Vproto_user\*O | \*Vproto_group\*O"
Causes \*Ledquota\*O to initialize the specified quotas by
duplicating the quotas of the specified prototypical \*Vproto_user\*O (if
used with the \*L\-u\*O flag or no other flags) or \*Vproto_group\*O (if used
with the \*L\-g\*O flag).  \*Vproto_user\*O or \*Vproto_group\*O
must have a previously defined and valid quota file.  Editing quotas
for one user, then using the \*L\-p\*O flag to duplicate these quotas
is the normal mechanism used to initialize quotas for a group of users.
.LI "\*L\-t\*O"
Changes the default grace period for which users may exceed their soft limits.
By default, or when you specify \*L\-t\*O with the \*L\-u\*O flag, the grace
period is set for all filesystems with user quotas specified in
\*L/etc/fstab\*O; when you specify \*L\-t\*O with the \*L\-g\*O flag,
the grace period is set for all the filesystems with group quotas
specified in \*L/etc/fstab\*O.
.LI "\*L\-u\*O"
Edits the quotas of one or more users, specified by \*Vusername\*O \&... on
the command line.  \*L\-u\*O  is the default.  When used with \*L\-t\*O,
changes the grace period for all filesystems with user quotas specified
in \*L/etc/fstab\*O.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/edquota\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "[\*Vfilesystem_root\*O]\*L/quota.user\*O"
Contains user quotas for \*Vfilesystem\*O
.LI "[\*Vfilesystem_root\*O]\*L/quota.group\*O"
Contains user quotas for \*Vfilesystem\*O
.LI "\*L/etc/fstab\*O"
Contains filesystem names and locations
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lquota\*O(1), \*Lquotacheck\*O(8), \*Lquotaon\*O(8),
\*Lrepquota\*O(8).
.PP
Functions:   \*Lquotactl\*O(2).
.PP
Files:  \*Lfstab\*O(4).
.iX "edquota command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
