.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: fasthalt.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.8.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:18:28 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.TH fasthalt 8
.SH NAME
\*Lfasthalt\*O \- Halts the system
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/usr/sbin/fasthalt\*O [\*L\-lnq\*O]
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "fasthalt command"
.iX "halting the system"
.PP 
The
\*Lfasthalt\*O
command halts the system and flags a subsequent reboot to skip the
execution of
\*Lfsck\*O.
The program
creates the
\*Lfastboot\*O
file, then invokes the
\*Lhalt\*O
program.
The system start-up script
contains instructions to look for the
\*Lfastboot\*O
file.  If present, the script
removes the file and skips the invocation of the
\*Lfsck\*O
command.
.PP 
If the command is invoked without the \*L\-l\*O, \*L\-n\*O, or
\*L\-q\*O flag,
the \*Lhalt\*O program logs the shutdown using the \*Lsyslogd\*O
command
and places a record of the shutdown
in the login accounting file, \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O.  Using the
\*L\-q\*O and the \*L\-n\*O
flags imply the \*L\-l\*O flag.
.PP 
You must have
\*Lroot\*O privileges
to use this command.
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L\-l\*O"
Does not log the halt using \*Lsyslog\*O.
.LI "\*L\-n\*O"
Prevents the sync before stopping, and does not log the halt using \*Lsyslog\*O.
.LI "\*L\-q\*O"
Causes a quick halt, does not log the halt using \*Lsyslog\*O,
and makes no attempt to kill all processes.
.LE 
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/fasthalt\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/syslogd\*O"
Specifies the path of the syslog daemon
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lfsck\*O(8), \*Lhalt\*O(8), \*Lsyslogd\*O(8)
.PP 
Functions:  
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" There is no halt(2) manpage
.\" \*Lhalt\*O(2), 
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
\*Lsync\*O(2), \*Lsyslog\*O(3)
.iX "fasthalt command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
