.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: fastboot.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:17:07 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.TH fastboot 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lfastboot\*O \- Reboots the system without checking file systems
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP
.sS 
\*L/usr/sbin/fastboot\*O [\*L\-lnq\*O]
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP 
.iX "fastboot command"
.iX "rebooting the system"
The
\*Lfastboot\*O
command reboots the system without
checking file systems.  The
program creates the
\*Lfastboot\*O
file then invokes the
\*Lreboot\*O
program.
The system start-up script
contains instructions to look for the
\*Lfastboot\*O
file.  If present, the script
removes the file and skips the invocation of the
\*Lfsck\*O
command.
.PP 
You must have
\*Lroot\*O privileges
to use this command.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL
.LI "\*L\-l\*O"
Does not log the reboot or place a shutdown record in
the accounting file.
.LI "\*L\-n\*O"
Does not sync the disks or log the reboot.
.LI "\*L\-q\*O"
Performs a quick reboot without first shutting down running
processes; does not log the reboot.
.LE 
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/fastboot\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lfsck\*O(8), \*Lrc0\*O(8), \*Lrc2\*O(8), \*Lrc3\*O(8),
\*Lreboot\*O(8), \*Lshutdown\*O(8), \*Lsyslogd\*O(8)
.PP 
Functions:  \*Lsync\*O(2), \*Lsyslog\*O(3)
.iX "fastboot command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
