.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH fdetach 8
.SH "NAME"
.PP
\*Lfdetach\*O - Detaches a STREAMS-based file descriptor from a filename
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.sS
\*Lfdetach\*O \*Vpath\*O
.sE
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "fdetach command"
.iX "STREAMS file descriptor releaser"
The \*Lfdetach\*O command detaches, or dissociates, the file descriptor
(\*Vfildes\*O) for a STREAMS file from its filename in the file system.
The \*Vpath\*O argument specifies the pathname of the object in the file
system name space on which the command operates.
This pathname is the one that was previously associated with
the file descriptor by the \*Lfattach\*O function.
.PP
Operations will subsequently be made on the file system node, not on
the STREAMS file.
The permissions and status of the node are returned to
the state that they were in before the STREAMS file was attached.
Any other paths that the STREAMS file may be attached to are not affected.
.\".br
.\".ne 1.5i
.\".SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
To successfully issue the \*Lfdetach\*O command,
the user must have the appropriate permissions or must be the owner
of the file and have write permission.
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
To detach the file descriptor for the STREAMS file \*L/tmp/streamfile\*O from
its associated file system node, enter:
.iS
fdetach /tmp/streamfile
.iE
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "FILES"
.PP
.VL 10m
.LI "\*L/usr/bin/fdetach\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LE
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
.\".ad l
Functions: \*Lfattach(3)\*O,
\*Lfdetach(3)\*O.
.iX "fattach function/routine"
.iX "fdetach function/routine"
.PP
Interfaces: \*Lstreamio(7)\*O.
.iX "streamio interface"
.\".ad b
.EQ
delim off
.EN
