.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: fingerd.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 11:29:48 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH fingerd 8
.SH NAME
\*Lfingerd\*O \- The user information server for networks
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*Lfingerd\*O [\*L-s\*O]
.sE
.PP
The
\*Lfingerd\*O
program allows users to get information about remote systems or
users when they execute; for example,
\*Lfinger\*O
\*Vuser\*L@\*Vhost\*O.
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Turns on socket level debugging.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "fingerd"
.iX "protocol"
.iX "FINGER protocol"
.PP 
The \*Lfingerd\*O program is a protocol that provides an interface to
the \*Lfinger\*O(1) command.  \*Lfingerd\*O
is invoked by \*Linetd\*O(8),
which listens for \*Lfinger\*O requests at port 79.
When it receives control, \*Lfingerd\*O reads a single command line,
terminated by a newline, and passes it to the \*Lfinger\*O command,
which generates a report.  \*Lfingerd\*O
closes its port connection when output from \*Lfinger\*O is finished.
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/fingerd\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O"
User database
.LI "\*L/var/adm/utmp\c\*O"
\*Lwho\*O file
.LI "\*L$HOME/\&.plan\*O"
Plans for requested user
.LI "\*L$HOME/\&.project\*O"
Projects for requested user
.LI "\*L/usr/bin/whois\c\*O"
\*Lwhois\*O command
.LI "\*L/usr/bin/who\c\*O"
\*Lwho\*O command
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands: \*Lfinger\*O(1),
\*Linetd\*O(8),
\*Lsyslogd\*O(8),
\*Lwho\*O(1)
.PP 
Specifications: RFC742
.EQ
delim off
.EN
