.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: fitset.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/21 14:58:21 $
.\"
.TH fitset 8
.SH NAME
\*Lfitset\*O \- determine if a subset fits on a system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/lbin/fitset\*O
[ \*L\-d\*O ]
[ \*Vroot-path\*O ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "setld" "subset fits on a system"
.iX "kits" "subset fits on a system"
The
\*Lfitset\*O
utility is used to determine if the files in a software subset will fit
on a system.
.PP
The
\*Lfitset\*O
utility reads subset inventory records from the standard input and
calculates the number of inodes and the amount of disk space the subset
requires.  For each record,
\*Lfitset\*O
deducts one inode from the number available in the target file system.
For the space calculation,
\*Lfitset\*O
deducts the file size specified by each record.  Only currently mounted
UFS and NFS file systems are used in the computations.
.PP
Space requirements for files already on the disk are adjusted by using
the difference between the specified size and the size of the file that
is already present.
.PP
A given subset can include files that are to be installed in several
file systems.  The
\*Lfitset\*O
utility tracks inodes and file space for all file systems affected and
returns nonzero status if the remaining number of inodes or amount of
free space for any of these file systems is overflowed.  If there is no
overflow,
\*Lfitset\*O
returns a status of zero.
.PP
The
\*Lsetld\*O
utility uses
\*Lfitset\*O
to size all subsets before attempting to install them.  The
\*Vroot-path\*O
argument is the pathname of the top directory for the hierarchy into
which the files are going to be installed. If no
\*Vroot-path\*O
is specified, the directory '/' is assumed.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.TP
.B \-d
Enable debugging.  This will make
\*Lfitset\*O
print voluminous status information on standard output.  This
information is the initial file system statistics, the file system
location of the file from each input record, and the statistics for the
file system after the space required to install the file has been
deducted.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To determine if a particular subset will fit on the system, redirect
the contents of the subset inventory file into
\*Lfitset\*O.
For example:
.oS
fitset < /usr/.smdb./OATDCB100.inv
.oE
.PP
To determine if the same subset will fit in a hierarchy rooted at
\*L/var/tmp/root\*O,
the command would be:
.oS
fitset /var/tmp/root < /usr/.smdb./ULTUUCP400.inv
.oE
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B fitset: root path must be absolute
.br
.RS 5
A relative pathname was specified for
\*Vroot-path\*O.
The path must be absolute.
.RE
.PP
.BI "fitset: cannot access " path " (" error-message )
.br
.RS 5
The
\*Vpath\*O
cannot be accessed.  The error message provides more information.
.RE
.PP
.BI "fitset: " root-path " is not a directory."
.br
.RS 5
Either
\*Vroot-path\*O
is not a directory or it is a symbolic link to something
which is not a directory.
.RE
.PP
.B "fitset: <warning> path is a symbolic link to itself"
.br
.RS 5
The
\*Vpath\*O
is a symbolic link that involves cyclic linking.
.RE
.PP
.B fitset:
.br
.BI "file system " path " will be around " nnn "% full."
.br
.RS 5
Installing the software specified will fill the
\*Vpath\*O
file system beyond 100%, thereby making it impossible for non-root
users to write there.  This problem can have a serious impact on normal
system operation.
.RE
.PP
.B fitset:
.br
.BI "file system " path " needs " nnn
.B "Kbytes more to install the software specified."
.br
.B fitset:
.br
.BI "file system " path " needs " nnn
.B "more inodes to install the software specified."
.br
.RS 5
The file system
\*Vpath\*O
is out of space.  The message that is displayed indicates whether the
error is insufficient space or a lack of available inodes.  If space is
the issue, deleting files to make available barely the indicated amount
of space might result in a
.BI "``file system " path " will be around " nnn "% full''"
warning because the root user is permitted to fill a file system beyond
100%.
.RE
.PP
.BI "fitset: file system " path " is not writable."
.br
.RS 5
The mode of the file system named by
\*Vpath\*O
does not permit writing into the file system.
.RE
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 28
\*L/usr/.smdb./*.inv\*O
Subset inventory files
.TP 28
\*L/var/adm/smlogs/fitset.log\*O
Log file
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lsetld\*O(8)
.PP
File formats:  \*Lstl_inv\*O(4)
.PP
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
