.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: fsx.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/04/15 21:45:56 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)fsx.8 9.1 4/15/91
.TH fsx 8
.SH NAME
fsx \- file system exerciser
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/field/fsx\*O [ \*L\-h\*O ] [ \*L\-o\*Vfile\*O ] [ \*L\-t\*Vn\*O ] [ \*L\-f\*Vpath\*O ] [ \*L\-p\*Vm\*  ]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "fsx exerciser"
.iX "file system" "testing"
The \*Lfsx\*O exerciser spawns the background process \*Lfsxr\*O, and these two
processes exercise a file system by
creating, opening, writing, opening, reading, validating, closing, and unlinking
a test file.  These test files are created in the \*L/usr/field\*O
directory (the default) unless the \*L\-f\*Vpath\*O flag is used.
.PP
You can spawn up to 250 (default is 20) \*Lfsx\*O processes
(\*Lfsxr1\*O, \*Lfsxr2\*O, ... \*Lfsxr\*Vn\*O where \*Vn\*O is the number of
processes spawned).
The exerciser will run until a
.kY "CTRL-C"
or \*Lkill \-15\*V pid\*O command is sent to the process.
.PP
A logfile is created in \*L/usr/field\*O
for you to examine
and then remove. If there are errors in the logfile, make
sure you check the syslog file
where the driver and kernel error messages are saved.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
The \*Lfsx\*O flags are:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-h\*O"
Prints the help messages for the \*Lfsx\*O command.
.LI "\*L\-o\*Vfile\*O"
Saves the output diagnostics in \*Vfile\*O.
.LI "\*L\-t\*Vn\*O"
Run time in minutes (\*Vn\*O).  The default is to run
until the process receives a
.kY "CTRL-C"
or a \*Lkill \-15 \*Vpid\*O command.
.LI "\*L\-p\*Vm\*O"
Number (\*Vm\*O) of \*Lfsx\*O processes to spawn.
The maximum is 250; the default is 20.
.LI "\*L\-f\*Vpath\*O"
Path name of directory on file system
you wish to test. For example, \*L/mnt\*O or \*L/usr\*O.
The default is \*L/usr/field\*O.
.LE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
.iX "fsx exerciser" "restricted"
If you must run a system exerciser over an NFS link or on a diskless
system, there are some restrictions.  For exercisers such as \*Lfsx\*O(8),
which must write into a file system, the target file system must be
writable by root. Also, the directory in which any of the exercisers are
executed must be writable by root because temporary files are written
into the current directory.  These latter restrictions are sometimes
difficult to overcome
because often NFS file systems are mounted in a
way that prevents root from writing into them.  Some of the restrictions
may be overcome by copying \*Lfsx\*O and \*Lfsxr\*O to another directory
and then executing it.  Avoid using the \*Lfsx\*O exerciser over an NFS or
diskless file system.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.iX "fsx exerciser" "examples"
The following example runs 10 \*Lfsx\*O processes on \*L/mnt\*O
until the process receives a
.kY "CTRL-C"
or \*Lkill \-15 \*Vpid\*O command:
.oS
% /usr/field/fsx \-p10 \-f/mnt
.oE
The following example runs 20 \*Lfsx\*O processes on \*L/usr/field\*O
for 120 minutes in the background:
.oS
% /usr/field/fsx \-t120 &
.oE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lcmx\*O(8), \*Lmemx\*O(8), \*Lshmx\*O(8), \*Ltapex\*O(8), \*Ldiskx\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
