.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ftpd.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/10 19:19:59 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
...\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1988 The Regents of the University of California.
...\" All rights reserved.
...\"
...\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
...\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
...\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
...\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
...\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
...\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
...\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
...\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
...\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
...\" specific prior written permission.
...\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
...\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
...\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
...\"
...\" @(#)ftpd.8	6.8 (Berkeley) 6/24/90
...\"
.TH ftpd 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lftpd\*O \- The DARPA Internet File Transfer Protocol server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "ftpd"
.iX "protocol"
.iX "DARPA"
.iX "Internet Protocol"
.iX "file" "transfer"
.sS
\*Lftpd\*O [\*L-dl\*O] [\*L-t\*Vtimeout\*O] [\*L-T\*Vmaxtimeout\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L-d\c\*O"
Debugging information is written to the \*Lsyslogd\*O(8).
.LI "\*L-l\*O"
Each FTP session is logged in the syslog,
.IP
.\"Removed Digital specific reference.
.\" Digital specific info.
as well as additional
information, such as the file name retrieved or stored, the number of
bytes, and the attempted logins that failed.
.\" End Digital specific info.
.LI "\*L-t\*O\*Vtime-out\*O"
The inactivity time-out period will be set to \*Vtime-out\*O seconds.
.LI "\*L-T\*O\*Vmaxtime-out\*O"
The maximum timeout period allowed may be set to \*Vtimeout\*O seconds
with this option.
.LE
.SH SECURITY NOTE
.PP
This security-sensitive command uses the SIA (Security
Integration Architecture) routine
as an interface to the security mechanisms. See
\*Lmatrix.conf\*O(4) for more information.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
\*Lftpd\*O
command is the DARPA (Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency)
Internet File Transfer Protocol
server process.  The server uses the TCP protocol
and listens at the port specified in the FTP
service specification; see
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\" changed services(5) to services(4)
\*Lservices\*O(4).
.\"End Digital correction.
.PP
If the
\*L\-d\*O
flag is specified,
debugging information is written to the
.sp
\*Lsyslogd\*O(8).
.PP
If the
\*L\-l\*O
flag is specified,
each ftp session is logged in the syslog.
.PP
The FTP server
will time out an inactive session after 15 minutes.
If the
\*L\-t\*O
flag is specified,
the inactivity time-out period will be set to
\*Vtime-out\*O
seconds.
A client may also request a different time-out period;
the maximum period allowed may be set to
\*Vtime-out\*O
seconds with the
\*L\-T\*O
flag.
The default limit is 2 hours.
.PP
The FTP server currently supports the following \*Lftp\*O
requests; case is not distinguished.
.VL
.LI \*LRequest\*O
\*LDescription\*O
.LI \*LABOR\*O
Abort previous command
.LI \*LACCT\*O
Specify account (ignored)
.LI \*LALLO\*O
Allocate storage (vacuously)
.LI \*LAPPE\*O
Append to a file
.LI \*LCDUP\*O
Change to parent of current working directory
.LI \*LCWD\*O
Change working directory
.LI \*LDELE\*O
Delete a file
.LI \*LHELP\*O
Give help information
.LI \*LLIST\*O
Give list files in a directory (\*Lls -lgA\*O)
.LI \*LMKD\*O
Make a directory
.LI \*LMDTM\*O
Show last modification time of file
.LI \*LMODE\*O
Specify data transfer mode
.LI \*LNLST\*O
Give name list of files in directory
.LI \*LNOOP\*O
Do nothing
.LI \*LPASS\*O
Specify password
.LI \*LPASV\*O
Prepare for server-to-server transfer
.LI \*LPORT\*O
Specify data connection port
.LI \*LPWD\*O
Print the current working directory
.LI \*LQUIT\*O
Terminate session
.LI \*LREST\*O
Restart incomplete transfer
.LI \*LRETR\*O
Retrieve a file
.LI \*LRMD\*O
Remove a directory
.LI \*LRNFR\*O
Specify rename-from filename
.LI \*LRNTO\*O
Specify rename-to filename
.LI \*LSITE\*O
Nonstandard commands (see next section)
.LI \*LSIZE\*O
Return size of file
.LI \*LSTAT\*O
Return status of server
.LI \*LSTOR\*O
Store a file
.LI \*LSTOU\*O
Store a file with a unique name
.LI \*LSTRU\*O
Specify data transfer structure
.LI \*LSYST\*O
Show operating system type of server system
.LI \*LTYPE\*O
Specify data transfer type
.LI \*LUSER\*O
Specify username
.LI \*LXCUP\*O
Change to parent of current working directory (deprecated)
.LI \*LXCWD\*O
Change working directory (deprecated)
.LI \*LXMKD\*O
Make a directory (deprecated)
.LI \*LXPWD\*O
Print the current working directory (deprecated)
.LI \*LXRMD\*O
Remove a directory (deprecated)
.LE
.PP
The following nonstandard or UNIX compatible commands are supported
by the \*LSITE\*O request:
.VL
.LI \*LRequest
Description\*O
.LI \*LUMASK\*O
Change umask (for example: \*LSITE UMASK 002\*O)
.LI \*LIDLE\*O
Set idle timer (for example: \*LSITE IDLE 60\*O)
.LI \*LCHMOD\*O
Change mode of a file (for example  \*LSITE CHMOD 755\*O filename)
.LI \*LHELP\*O
Give help information (for example: \*LSITE HELP\*O)
.LE
.PP
The remaining \*Lftp\*O requests specified in Internet RFC959 are
recognized, but not implemented.
\*LMDTM\*O and \*LSIZE\*O are not specified in
RFC959, but will appear in the next updated FTP RFC.
.PP
The \*Lftp\*O server will abort an active file transfer only when the
\*LABOR\*O command is preceded by a Telnet Interrupt Process (IP)
signal and a Telnet Synch signal in the command Telnet stream,
as described in Internet RFC959.
If a \*LSTAT\*O command is received during a data transfer, preceded
by a Telnet IP and Synch, transfer status will be returned.
.PP
The
\*Lftpd\*O
command
interprets filenames according to the ``globbing''
conventions used by
\*Lcsh\*O(1).
This allows users to utilize the metacharacters ``*?[]{}~''.
.PP
The
\*Lftpd\*O
command authenticates users according to four rules:
.ML
.LI
The username must be in the password database,
\*L/etc/passwd\*O,
and not have a null password.  In this case, a password
must be provided by the client before any file operations
may be performed.
.LI
The username must not appear in the
\*L/etc/ftpusers\*O
file.
.LI
The user must have a standard shell returned by
\*Lgetusershell\*O(3).
.LI
If the username is \*Lanonymous\*O or \*Lftp\*O, an
anonymous \*Lftp\*O account must be present in the password
file (user \*Lftp\*O).  In this case, the user is allowed
to log in by specifying any password (by convention this
is given as the client host's name).
.LE
.PP
In the last case,
\*Lftpd\*O
takes special measures to restrict the client's access privileges.
The server performs a
\*Lchroot\*O(2)
command to the home directory of the \*Lftp\*O user.
In order that system security is not breached, it is recommended
that the \*Lftp\*O subtree be constructed with care;  the following
rules are recommended.
.VL
.LI "\*L~ftp\*O"
Make the home directory owned by \*Lftp\*O and unwritable by anyone.
.LI "\*L~ftp/bin\*O"
Make this directory owned by the superuser and unwritable by
anyone.  The program
\*V\f3ls\f1\*O(1)
must be present to support the list command.
This program should have mode 111.
.\"Removed Digital specific reference.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.IP
Copy the \*Lls\*O from \*L/sbin/ls\*O.
.LI "\*L~ftp/etc\*O"
Make this directory owned by the superuser and unwritable by
.\" changed passwd(5) to passwd(4)
.\" changed group(5) to group(4)
anyone.  The files \*Lpasswd\*O(4) and \*Lgroup\*O(4)
must be present for the
\*Lls\*O command to be able to produce owner names rather than numbers.
The password field in
\*Lpasswd\*O
is not used, and should not contain real encrypted passwords.
These files should be mode 444.
.IP
.\"Removed Digital specific reference.
.IP
In this environment,
the \*Lsia\*O subdirectory (which you can copy from \*L/etc/sia\*O)
must also be present for the \*Lls\*O command to be able to produce
owner names rather than numbers.
.\" End Digital-specific information.
.LI "\*L~ftp/pub\*O"
Make this directory mode 777 and owned by \*Lftp\*O.  Users
should then place files that are to be accessible via the
anonymous account in this directory.
.LE
.\"Removed Digital specific reference.
.\" Begin Digital specific information
.PP
The \*Lftp\*O command uses the default Type-of-Service values
recommended by RFC1060, which are as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lftp-control\*O"
Low delay
.LI "\*Lftp-data\*O"
High throughput
.LE
.PP
You can configure these values by specifying them in the
\*L/etc/iptos\*O file. For more information, see \*Liptos\*O(4).
.\" End Digital specific information.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/ftpd\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.LI "\*L/etc/ftpusers\*O"
Contains the list of unauthorized users.
.\"End Digital correction.
.LE
.SH CAUTIONS
.PP
The anonymous account is inherently dangerous and should be
avoided when possible.
.PP
The server must run as the superuser to create sockets with privileged
port numbers.  It maintains an effective user ID of the
logged in user, reverting to the superuser only when
binding addresses to sockets.  The possible security holes
have been extensively scrutinized, but are
possibly incomplete.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands: \*Lftp\*O(1)
.PP
Daemons: \*Lsyslogd\*O(8)
.PP
Functions: \*Lgetusershell\*O(3)
.\"Removed Digital specific reference.
.\" Begin Digital specific information.
.PP
Files: \*Liptos\*O(4)
.\" End Digital specific information.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
