.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: fwtmp.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 18:41:14 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" fwtmp1.man
.\" nm_03.08.90
.\" hah_10.07.90
.TH fwtmp 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lfwtmp\*O, \*Lacctwtmp\*O, \*Lwtmpfix\*O \- Modify connect time accounting records to change formats and to make corrections in the records
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "fwtmp command"
.iX "accounting" "fwtmp command"
.sS
\*Lfwtmp\*O [\*L-ic\*O]
.PP
\*Lacctwtmp\*O \*V'Reason'\*O
.PP
\*Lwtmpfix\*O [\*VFile . . .\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L-i\c\*O"
The \*Lfwtmp\*O command accepts ASCII records in the type \*Lutmp\*O
structure format as input.
.LI "\*L-c\c\*O"
The \*Lfwtmp\*O command converts output to type \*Lutmp\*O structure
formatted binary records.
.LI "\*L-ic\c\*O"
The \*Lfwtmp\*O command converts ASCII type \*Lutmp\*O structure
formatted input records to binary output records.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.SS "\*Lfwtmp\*O [\*L-ic\*O]"
The \*Lfwtmp\*O command reads records from standard input and writes
records to standard output. Normally, information in record fields
of the \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O file is entered as binary data by the
\*Linit\*O and \*Llogin\*O programs during the life of the
\*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O file. These \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O file records have
nine fields formatted according to members of a type \*Lutmp\*O structure
defined in the \*Lutmp.h\*O include file. The \*Lfwtmp\*O command is
also capable of writing properly formatted ASCII records from standard
input into a file when you use the \*L-i\*O flag.
.PP
Whenever you enter properly formatted ASCII records for conversion to
binary records using the \*L-i\*O flag from the standard input
device, you must enter data for each field of the 9-field record in
the same order as that of type \*Lutmp\*O structure members using a
space as a field separator. The following table
lists record fields in the order they should be entered, the type
\*Lutmp\*O structure member name, and the purpose and entry character length.
.VL
.LI "\*L1  ut_user\*O"
The user login name, which must have exactly \*Lsizeof(ut_user)\*O characters.
.LI "\*L2  ut_id\*O"
The \*Linittab\*O ID, which must have exactly \*Lsizeof(ut_id)\*O
characters.
.LI "\*L3  ut_line\*O"
The device name, which must have exactly \*Lsizeof(ut_line)\*O characters.
.LI "\*L4  ut_pid\*O"
The process ID, which must have 5 decimal places.
.LI "\*L5  ut_type\*O"
The type of entry, which must have 2 decimal places. The type of entry
may have any one of several symbolic constant values. The symbolic
constants are defined in the \*Lutmp.h\*O header file.
.LI "\*L6  ut_exit.e_termination\*O"
The process termination status, which must have 4 decimal places.
.LI "\*L7  ut_exit.e_exit\*O"
The process exit status, which must have 4 decimal places.
.LI "\*L8  ut_time\*O"
The starting time, which must have 10 decimal places.
.LI "\*L9  ut_host\*O"
The hostname, which must have exactly \*Lsizeof(ut_host)\*O characters.
.LE
.PP
All record field entries you make from standard input must be
separated by a space. Also you must fill all string fields with blank
characters up to the maximum string size. All decimal values must have
the specified number of decimal places with preceding 0s (zeros) to
fill empty digit positions. The actual size of character arrays can be
found in the \*Lutmp.h\*O include file.
.SS "\*Lacctwtmp\*O \*V'Reason'\*O"
The \*Lacctwtmp\*O command is called by the \*Lrunacct\*O shell procedure
to write a \*Lutmp\*O formatted record to standard output with the
current date and time together with a \*V'Reason'\*O string
(\*Lsizeof(ut_line)\*O characters or less) that you must also enter.
.SS "\*Lwtmpfix\*O [\*VFile \&...\*O]"
The \*Lwtmpfix\*O command is called by the \*Lrunacct\*O shell
procedure to examine standard input or \*VFile\*O records in the
\*Lwtmp\*O format for corrupted date and timestamp entries. Whenever a
corrupted entry is detected, the \*Lwtmpfix\*O command corrects date
and timestamp inconsistencies and writes corrected records to
standard output. Whenever the \*Lacctcon1\*O command runs, and a date and
timestamp in a \%\*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O file is incorrect, an error
is generated when the first corrupted entry is encountered. The
\*Lacctcon1\*O process is aborted whenever such an error is detected.
.PP
The \*Lwtmpfix\*O command also checks the validity of the name
field to ensure that the name consists only of alphanumeric
characters, a \*L$\*O (dollar sign), or spaces. Whenever an invalid name is
detected, the \*Lwtmpfix\*O command changes the login name to
\*LINVALID\*O and writes a diagnostic message to standard error. In
this way, the \*Lwtmpfix\*O command reduces the likelihood that the
\*Lacctcon2\*O command may fail.
.PP
Each time a date is entered (on system startup or with the \*Ldate\*O
command) a pair of date-change records is written to the
\%\*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O file. The first date-change record is the old
date, which is entered with the string \*Lold time\*O (the
\*LOTIME_MSG\*O string) in the \*Lut_line\*O field and the flag
\*LOLD_TIME\*O in the \*Lut_type\*O field. The second record is the
new date, which is entered with the string \*Lnew time\*O (the
\*LNTIME_MSG\*O string) in the \*Lut_line\*O field and the flag
\*LNEW_TIME\*O in the \*Lut_type\*O field. The \*Lwtmpfix\*O command
uses these records to synchronize all date and time stamps in the
\*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O file. The date-change record pair is then removed.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding from BL11 Release Notes.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
You should not use the \*Lfwtmp\*O command to correct connect-time
accounting records because the \*Lutmp\*O structure format members
are not in the correct order for this operation.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To convert binary \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O records in type \*Lutmp\*O structure
format to an ASCII file called \*Ldummy.file\*O, enter a command similar to
the following:
.iS
/usr/sbin/acct/fwtmp < /var/adm/wtmp > dummy.file
.iE
The content of binary file \*L/var/adm/wtmpfile\*O as input is redirected
to \*Ldummy.file\*O as ASCII output.
.LI
To convert records in an ASCII type \*Lutmp\*O structure formatted
file to a binary output file called \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O, enter an
\*Lfwtmp\*O command with the \*L-ic\*O flag similar to the following:
.iS
/usr/sbin/acct/fwtmp -ic < dummy.file > /var/adm/wtmp
.iE
The content of ASCII file \*Ldummy.file\*O as input is redirected to binary
file \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O as output.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/acct/fwtmp\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/acct/wtmpfix\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/acct/acctwtmp\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LI "\*L/usr/include/utmp.h\*O"
Header file defining structures used to organize login information.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/utmp\*O"
Database file for currently logged in users.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O"
Login/logout database file.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lacct\*O(8), \*Lacctcon\*O(8), \*Lacctmerg\*O(8), \*Ldate\*O(1),
\*Lrunacct\*O(8)
.PP
Functions: \*Lacct\*O(2)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
