.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: gated.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/09 13:04:24 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH gated 8
.SH NAME
\*Lgated\*O \- The gateway routing daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\" The following was incorrect syntax.
.\".sS
.\"\*Lgated\*O [\*L-teiHprRu]\*O
.\".sE
.\" The following is the correct syntax.
.\"Added /usr/sbin to get it to pass tman. T. Wolklin: Sterling
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/gated\*O [\*L-t\*O [\*Li\*O] [\*Le\*O] [\*Lr\*O] [\*Lp\*O] [\*Lu\*O] [\*LR\*O] [\*LH\*O]] [\*Vlogfile\*O]
.sE
.\"End Digital correction.
.PP
The
\*Lgated\*O
daemon processes multiple routing protocols according to the
configuration set in \*Lgated.conf\*O file.
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L-e\*O"
Logs all external errors due to EGP, exterior routing
errors, and EGP state changes.
.LI "\*L-H\*O"
Traces all HELLO packets received.
.LI "\*L-i\*O"
Logs all internal errors and interior routing errors.
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Traces all EGP packets sent and received.
.LI "\*L-R\*O"
Traces all RIP packets received.
.LI "\*L-r\*O"
Logs all routing changes.
.LI "\*L-t\*O"
If used alone, the \*L-t\*O flag
starts the \*L-i\*O, \*L-e\*O, \*L-r\*O, and \*L-p\*O
trace flags.
When used with another flag, the \*L-t\*O flag has no effect
and only the accompanying flags are recognized. Note that when other
flags are used, the \*L-t\*O flag must be used with them and must be
the first flag given
in the command line.
.LI "\*L-u\*O"
Logs all routing updates sent.
The \*Lgated\*O daemon always logs fatal errors.
If no log
file is specified and none of the preceding trace flags are set, all
messages are sent to the \*L/dev/null\*O file.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "gated"
.iX "gated daemon"
.iX "FTP protocol"
.iX "routing, gateway"
.iX "protocol" "FTP"
.iX "daemon" "gated"
.PP
The \*Lgated\*O daemon manages multiple routing protocols,
including the Routing Information Protocol
(RIP), Exterior Gateway Protocol (EGP), and
Local Network Protocol (HELLO).
The \*Lgated\*O process can be configured to perform all
or any combination of these routing protocols.
It replaces daemons that use the HELLO routing protocol; for example,
\*Lrouted \*O(8)
and
\*Legpup (8).\*O
The configuration for the \*Lgated\*O daemon is by default stored
in the \*L/etc/gated.conf\*O file, and can be changed at compile time
in the file \*Ldefs.h\*O.
The \*Lgated\*O daemon stores its process ID in
.\"changed /etc/gated/pid to /var/run/gated.pid
.\"in response to qar 16736. T. Wolklin: Sterling
the \*L/var/run/gated.pid\*O file.
.PP
When a routing update indicates that the route in use is being
deleted, the \*Lgated\*O daemon waits for 2 minutes
before deleting the route.
Be aware that unpredictable results may occur when the \*Lgated\*O
and \*Lrouted\*O daemons are run together on the same host.
.PP
Start the \*Lgated\*O daemon with a log file that you specify
on the command line.
You can also enter one or more trace flags on
the command line or specify the flags in the
\*Ltraceflags\*O stanza of the \*Lgated.conf\*O configuration file.
When trace flags are specified without a log file, all trace
output is sent to the controlling terminal.
.PP
By default, the \*Lgated\*O daemon forks and detaches
itself from the controlling terminal.
.PP
.PP
When certain networks are restricted from using the Internet network,
the \*Lgated\*O daemon uses both the \*Lsyslogd\*O daemon at
the \*LLOG_WARNING\*O log level and the \*LLOG_DAEMON\*O facility
to record all invalid networks.
.PP
If you use the EGP when you supply
the default route (by the RIP or HELLO gateway) and all EGP neighbors
are lost, the default route is not advertised until at least one EGP
neighbor is regained.
.PP
The RIP both propagates and
listens to host routes.  This allows the \*Lgated\*O
daemon to handle point-to-point links with consistency.  The
\*Lgated\*O daemon also supports the \*LRIP_TRACE\*O commands.
.PP
The \*Lgated\*O daemon detects changes made to the network interfaces
and its own start-up flags while it is running.
Thus, you need not restart the \*Lgated\*O daemon if you
change the configuration.
However, if the net mask, subnet mask, broadcast address, or interface
metric is changed, use the \*Lifconfig\*O(8) command to mark the
interface \*Ldown\*O and then \*Lup\*O 30 seconds later.
.PP
Subnet interfaces are supported.
Subnet information is passed
through interfaces to other subnets of the same network.
.PP
The \*Lgated\*O daemon listens to host and network \*LREDIRECT\*O
signals.
The daemon tries to take an action for its own internal
tables.
This action is parallel to the action the kernel takes on
the \*LREDIRECT\*O signal.
.PP
In addition, the \*Lgated\*O daemon cancels (times out)
all routes learned from \*LREDIRECT\*O signals in
6 minutes.
The daemon then deletes the route from the kernel routing tables, which
keeps the routing tables consistent.
.PP
No routing protocol announces
routes learned from \*LREDIRECT\*O signals.
.PP
The \*Lgated\*O EGP code verifies that all networks sent and received
are valid class A, B, or C networks as specified by the EGP.  The \*Lgated\*O
daemon does not contribute information about networks that do not meet EGP
specifications.  If an EGP update packet contains information about a
network that is not class A, B, or C, the \*Lgated\*O daemon considers
the update to be in error and ignores it.
.SS Signals
The \*Lgated\*O server performs the following actions when
you use the \*Lkill\*O(1) command to send
it the \*LSIGHUP\*O and \*LSIGINT\*O signals.
.VL
.LI "\*LSIGHUP\c\*O"
When a \*LSIGHUP\*O signal is sent to a \*Lgated\*O daemon that
was invoked with trace flags and a log file, tracing
is toggled off and the log file is closed.
At this point the log file can be moved or deleted.
When the next \*LSIGHUP\*O signal is sent to the \*Lgated\*O daemon,
tracing is toggled on.
The \*Lgated\*O daemon reads the \*L/etc/gated.conf\*O configuration
file and sets the trace flags to those specified by the
\*Ltraceflags\*O stanza.
.IP
If no \*Ltraceflags\*O stanza exists, tracing resumes and uses
any trace flags specified on the command line.
Trace output is sent to the log file specified on the command line.
The output is appended if the log file already exists, and the
file is created if it does not exist.
.LI "\*LSIGINT\c\*O"
Sending the \*Lgated\*O daemon a \*LSIGINT\*O
signal causes a memory dump to be scheduled within the next 60 seconds.
The memory dump is written to a file named /\*Lusr/temp/gated_dump\*O.
The \*Lgated\*O daemon processes all pending routing updates before
performing the memory dump.
.IP
The memory dump contains a snapshot of the current \*Lgated\*O daemon
status, including the interface configurations, EGP neighbor status,
and the routing tables.
If the \*L/usr/tmp/gated_dump\*O file
already exists, the memory dump is appended to the existing file.
.LE
.SS Internal Metrics for the gated Daemon
The \*Lgated\*O daemon stores all metrics internally as a time
delay in milliseconds to preserve the granularity of HELLO time delays.
The internal delay ranges from 0 to 30,000 milliseconds, with 30,000
representing infinity.
Metrics from other protocols are translated
to and from a time delay as they are received and transmitted.
EGP distances are not comparable to HELLO and RIP metrics but are stored
as time delays internally for comparison with other EGP metrics.
The conversion factor between EGP distances and time delays is 100.
.PP
.PP
RIP and interface metrics are translated to and from the internal
time delays with the use of the following translation tables.
The first two columns represent the time delay to RIP metric translation,
while the second two columns represent the RIP metric to time delay
translation.
.PP
.TS
tab(%);
cb s cb cb cb
cb cb cb cb cb
n n n n n.
Time Delay%\&%\&%\&%\&
Minimum%Maximum%RIP Metric%RIP Metric%Time Delay\*O
%
0%0%0%0%0
1%100%1%1%100
101%148%2%2%148
149%219%3%3%219
220%325%4%4%325
326%481%5%5%481
482%713%6%6%713
714%1057%7%7%1057
1058%1567%8%8%1567
1568%2322%9%9%2322
2323%3440%10%10%3440
3441%5097%11%11%5097
5098%7552%12%12%7552
7553%11,190%13%13%11,190
11,191%16,579%14%14%16,579
16,580%24,564%15%15%24,564
24,565%30,000%16%16%30,000
.TE
.SH CAUTIONS
.PP
Unpredictable results may occur when the \*Lgated\*O and
\*Lrouted\*O daemons are run together on the same host.
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/gated\*O"
Specifies the command path
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\"Directory is wrong. Moved to /var/run starting with Silver.
.LI "\*L/var/run/gated.conf\*O"
Contains the \*Lgated\*O configuration information
.LI "\*L/var/run/gated.pid\c\*O"
Contains the \*Lgated\*O process ID
.\".LI "\*L/etc/gated.conf\*O"
.\"Contains the \*Lgated\*O configuration information
.\".LI "\*L/etc/gated.pid\c\*O"
.\"Contains the \*Lgated\*O process ID
.\"End Digital correction
.LI "\*L/usr/tmp/gated_dump\*O"
Specifies the memory dump file
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lkill\*O, \*Lrouted\*O(8)
.\"added gated.conf(4)
.\"in response to qar 16736. T. Wolklin: Sterling
.PP
Files: \*Lgated.conf\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
