.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: genufi.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/16 14:17:00 $
.\"
.TH genufi 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgenufi\*O \- Generates a User File Inventory (UFI) file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "genufi utility"
.sS
\*L/usr/bin/genufi\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lgenufi\*O utility is a part of the Reinstallation Toolkit (RITKIT).
You must have superuser privileges to run this utility, and this
utility must be invoked from the \*L/usr/.smdb.\*O directory.
The \*Lgenufi\*O utility creates a User File Inventory (UFI) file which
contains the names of user files that were created or copied to your system
after an installation.  Some of these files reside on file systems that
are overwritten during a new installation of the operating system.  To
prevent losing these files, the RITKIT utilities enable you to
back up these files before you perform a new installation of the
operating system.
.PP
To create the UFI file, the \*Lgenufi\*O utility checks the Master
Synchronization Inventory (MSI) file created by the
\*Linvsync\*O utility to determine which file systems will be overwritten
by a complete installation.  The \*Lgenufi\*O utility then searches
those file systems for user files and writes these entries to the UFI
file.  File systems that remain intact during a new installation of the
operating system are not searched.
.PP
Note that the \*Lgenufi\*O utility also filters out certain files and
directories that would not commonly be considered for backup.  For example,
some log files, installation files, and temporary directories do not
need to be restored after a complete installation.  Thus, these files and
directories are not written to the UFI file.  The directories not included
are as follows:
.PP
.oS
\*L/tmp\*O
\*L/usr/.smdb.\*O
\*L/usr/sys/\*VHOST\*O
\*L/var/adm/smlogs\*O
\*L/var/adm/syslog.dated\*O
\*L/var/rwho\*O
\*L/var/tmp\*O
.oE
.PP
In the previous list, \*VHOST\*O represents the hostname of the system
such as \*L/usr/sys/BLUTO\*O on system \*Lbluto\*O.
The files not included are as follows:
.PP
.oS
\*L*/core\*O
\*L*/*.dummy\*O
\*L*/.new..\*O
\*L/osf_boot\*O
.\" This file (.profile) added for V1.3 only - delete for V1.4
\*L*/.profile\*O
\*L*/.proto..\*O
\*L/var/adm/binary.errlog\*O
\*L/var/adm/xdm/xdm-pid\*O
\*L*/vmcore\*O
\*L/*vmunix\*O
.oE
.PP
If there are entries in the UFI file that you do not want to back up,
edit the UFI file to remove these file names.  The UFI file is written
in the \*Lsetld\*O inventory file format.  See \*Lstl_inv\*O(4) for more
information.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L/usr/.smdb./MSI\*O"
Master Sycnhronization Inventory file
.LI "\*L/usr/.smdb./UFI\*O"
User File Inventory file
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lils\*O(8), \*Linvsync\*O(8), \*Ludelta\*O(8), \*Ludetect\*O(8),
\*Lupdmv\*O(8), \*Lusync\*O
.PP
Files: \*Lstl_inv\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
