.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getty.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 11:30:53 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH getty 8
.SH NAME
\*Lgetty\*O \- Sets the terminal type, modes, speed, and line discipline
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lgetty\*O [\*L-h\*O] [\*L-t\*O \*Vtime\*O] \*Vline\*O \*Vspeed_label\*O \*Vterminal\*O \*Vline_discipline\*O
.PP 
\*Lgetty\*O \*L-c\*O \*Vfile\*O
.sE 
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L-h\*O"
Hold the carrier during the initialization phase;do not hang up.
.LI "\*L-t\*O  \*Vtime\*O
Set the \*Vtime\*O period to the specified number of seconds.  Drop the
line after that amount of time if nothing is typed.
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Check the specified
\*Lgettydefs\*O
file.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "getty command"
.iX "port characteristics, setting"
.iX "setting" "port characteristics"
The \*Lgetty\*O command sets and manages terminals by setting up
speed, terminal flags, and the line discipline.
If command flags are provided,
\*Lgetty\*O
adapts the system to those specifications.
\*Lgetty\*O
prints the login prompt, waits for the user to enter a username,
and invokes the
\*Llogin\*O
command.
.PP 
\*Lgetty\*O
uses the
\*L/etc/gettydefs\*O
file for terminal information.  The \*Vline\*O argument refers
to the device name in \*L/dev\*O.
The \*Vspeed_label\*O argument is a pointer into the
\*L/etc/gettydefs\*O
file where the definitions for speed and other associated flags are located.
The \*Vterminal\*O argument specifies the name of the terminal type.
The \*Vline_discipline\*O argument specifies the name of the line discipline.
.PP 
The second syntax for the
\*Lgetty\*O
command provides a check option.  When
\*Lgetty\*O
is invoked with the
\*L-c\*O
option and
\*Vfilename\*O
argument, it checks the specified file in the same way it scans
\*Lgettydefs\*O
for terminal information, then prints the results to standard output.
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/getty\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LI "\*L/etc/gettydefs\*O"
Specifies the terminal line database file.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
Commands:  \*Linit\*O(8), \*Llogin\*O(1), \*Lstty\*O(1)
.iX "getty command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
