.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: halt.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.7.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:23:36 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.TH halt 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lhalt\*O \- Stops the processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/halt -l\*O
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/halt -n\*O
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/halt -q\*O
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/halt -y\*O
.sE
.PP
The \*Lhalt\*O command writes data to the disks and then stops
the processor(s), but does not reboot the machine.
Only \*Lroot\*O can run this command.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "halt command"
.iX "stopping the processor"
.iX "processor, stopping"
.PP
Use the \*Lhalt\*O command if you are not going to
restart the machine immediately.
When the system displays the \*C ....Halt completed.... \*O message,
you can turn off the power.
.PP
\*LDO NOT\*O use this
command if other users are logged into the system, or if
the system is operating at a multiuser run level.
.PP
If the command is invoked without the \*L\-l\*O, \*L\-n\*O, or \*L\-q\*O flag,
the \*Lhalt\*O program logs the shutdown using the \*Lsyslogd\*O command
and places a record of the shutdown
in the login accounting file, \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O.  Using the \*L-q\*O
and the \*L-n\*O flags imply the \*L-l\*O flag.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L-l\*O"
Does not log the halt using
\*Lsyslog\*O
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Prevents the sync before stopping, and does not log the halt using
\*Lsyslog\*O
.LI "\*L-q\*O"
Causes a quick halt, does not log the halt using
\*Lsyslog\*O,
and makes no
attempt to kill all processes
.LI "\*L-y\*O"
Halts the system from a dial\(hyup operation
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To halt the system without logging the shutdown in the log file,
enter:
.iS
halt -l
.iE
.LI
To halt the system quickly, enter:
.iS
halt -q
.iE
.LI
To halt the system from a dial-up, enter:
.iS
halt -y
.iE
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/halt\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/syslogd\*O"
Specifies the syslog daemon
.LI "\*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O"
Specifies the login accounting file
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lfasthalt\*O(8), \*Lreboot\*O(8), \*Lshutdown\*O(8),
\*Lsyslogd\*O(8)
.PP
Functions: \*Lreboot\*O(2), \*Lsync\*O(2), \*Lsyslog\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
