.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ifconfig.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/21 15:58:49 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH ifconfig 8
.SH NAME
\*Lifconfig\*O \- Configures or displays network interface parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/ifconfig\*O \*Vinterface_id\*O [\*Vaddress_family\*O] [\*Vaddress\*O [\*Vdest_address\*O]] [\*Vparameters\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lifconfig\*O command
assigns and displays an address to a network interface, and
configures network interface parameters.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "ifconfig"
.iX "network" "interface parameters"
You use the \*Lifconfig\*O command at boot time to define the network address
of each interface.  You can also use the \*Lifconfig\*O command at other times
to redefine the address of an interface or to set other operating parameters.
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.RS 5
If you want to redefine the interface address or the netmask, use the
\*Lnetsetup\*O command.  Otherwise, any daemons currently running will use the
old address and netmask, and will fail.  The \*Lnetsetup\*O command will make
the necessary changes and restart the network services.
.sp 6p
.RE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP
Any user can query the status of a network interface; only the
superuser can modify the configuration network interfaces.
.PP
You specify an interface with the \*Lifconfig\*O \*Vinterface_id\*O
syntax.  (See your hardware documentation for information on obtaining
an interface ID.)
.PP
If you do not specify an address or optional parameters, the \*Lifconfig\*O
program displays the current configuration for the specified network interface
only.
.PP
If a protocol family is specified by the
\*Vaddress_family\*O parameter, \*Lifconfig\*O reports only
the configuration details specific to that protocol family.
.PP
When changing an interface configuration, an address family,
which may alter the interpretation of succeeding parameters, must
be specified.
This family is required because an interface can receive
transmissions in different protocols, each of which may require a
separate naming scheme.
.PP
For the \*Linet\*O family,
the \*Vaddress_family\*O parameter is either a hostname or an
Internet
address in the standard dotted-decimal notation.
.PP
For the Xerox Network Systems family,
addresses are
\*Vnet\*O:\*Va\*O.\*Vb\*O.\*Vc\*O.\*Vd\*O.\*Ve\*O.\*Vf\*O ,
where \*Vnet\*O
is the assigned network number (in decimal),
and each of the 6  bytes of the host number,
\*Va\*O to \*Vf\*O, are specified in hexadecimal.
The host number may be omitted on 10-Mbps (Megabits per second)
Ethernet interfaces,
which use the hardware physical address,
and on interfaces other than the first.
.PP
The destination address
(\*Vdest\(uladdress\*O) argument specifies the address of
the correspondent on the remote end of a point-to-point link.
.SS Parameters
.VL
.LI "\*Lnetmask\*O \*Vmask\*O"
Specifies how much of the address to reserve for subdividing
networks into sub-networks.  This parameter can only be used with
an address family of \*Linet\*O.
.IP
The \*Vmask\*O variable includes both the network part of the
local address and the subnet
part, which is taken from the host field of the address.  The
\*Vmask\*O can be specified as a single hexadecimal number beginning
with \*L0x\*O, in the standard Internet dotted-decimal notation,
or beginning
with a name.
.IP
The \*Vmask\*O contains 1s (ones) for the bit positions in the 32-bit
address that are reserved for the network and subnet parts, and
0s (zeros) for the bit positions that specify the host.  The
\*Vmask\*O should contain at least the standard network portion.
.LI "\*Ltrailers\*O"
Requests the use of a trailer link-level encapsulation
when sending messages.
.IP
If a network interface supports
\*Ltrailers\*O,
the system will, when possible, encapsulate outgoing
messages in a manner that minimizes the number of
memory-memory copy operations performed by the receiver.
On networks that support the Address Resolution Protocol
(see \*Larp\*O),
this flag indicates that the system should request that other
systems use \*Ltrailers\*O when sending to this host.
Similarly, trailer encapsulations will be sent to other
hosts that have made such requests.  Currently used by Internet
protocols
only.
.LI "\*L\-trailers\*O"
Disables the use of a trailer link-level encapsulation.  The use of
\*L-trailers\*O may be disabled by default (check your vendor documentation).
.LI "\*Lup\*O"
Marks an interface as working (\*Lup\*O).  This parameter is used
automatically when setting the first address for an interface, or can
be used to enable an interface after an \*Lifconfig down\*O command.
If the interface was reset when previously marked with the parameter
\*Ldown\*O (see the following section for a description of this
parameter), the hardware will be reinitialized.
.LI "\*Ldown\*O"
Marks an interface as not working (\*Ldown\*O), which keeps the system from
trying to transmit messages through that interface.  If possible,
the \*Lifconfig\*O command also resets the interface to disable
reception of messages.  Routes that use the interface, however, are
not automatically disabled.
.LI "\*Larp\*O"
Enables the use of the Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) in mapping between
network-level addresses and link-level addresses.  This parameter is
on by default.
.LI "\*L\-arp\*O"
Disables the use of the ARP.  Use of this
parameter is not recommended, however, as your system will then only be able
to communicate with other hosts that are configured with the
parameter \*L\-arp\*O.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.LI "\*Lbroadcast\*O"
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
Specifies the address to use to represent broadcasts to the network.
The default broadcast address is the address with a host part
consisting of all 1s (ones).  Note that the computation of the host
part is dependent on \*Lnetmask\*O (see the description of the
\*Lnetmask\*O parameter).
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.LI "\*Lipmtu\*O \*Vmtu_value\*O"
Alters the size of the maximum transfer unit (MTU) for messages that your
system transmits.  It might be necessary to reduce the MTU size so that
bridges connecting token rings can transfer frames without error. 
.LI "\*Lpromisc\*O"
Sets the interface into promiscuous mode. This directs the network
interface to receive all packets off the network, rather than just those
packets directed to the host.
.LI "\*L\-promisc\*O"
Disables the promiscuous mode of the interface. This is the default.
.LI "\*Lallmulti\*O"
Enables the reception of all multicast packets.
.LI "\*L\-allmulti\*O"
Disables the reception of all multicast packets.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "\*Ldebug\*O"
Enables driver-dependent debug code. This might turn on extra console
error logging.  (See your hardware documentation for further
information.)
.LI "\*L\-debug\*O"
Disables driver-dependent debug code.
.LI "\*Vdest_address\*O"
Specifies the correspondent on the other end of a point-to-point
link.
.LI "\*Lipdst\*O"
Specifies an Internet host willing to receive IP packets encapsulating
packets bound for a remote network. For a Network Systems (NS)
case, an apparent
point-to-point link is constructed, and the address specified will be
taken as the NS address and network of the destination host.
.LI "\*Lalias\*O"
Establishes an additional network address for this interface.  This is
sometimes useful when changing network numbers and one wishes to
accept packets addressed to the old interface.
.LI "\*Ldelete\*O"
Removes the network address specified.  This would be used if you
incorrectly specified an alias, or if it was no longer needed.  If you
have incorrectly set an NS address having the side effect of
specifying the host portion, removing all NS addresses will allow you
to respecify the host portion.
.LI "\*Lmetric\*O \*Vnumber\*O"
Sets the routing metric, or number of hops, for the interface to
the value of \*Vnumber\*O.  The default value is 0 (zero) if \*Vnumber\*O
is not specified, indicating that both hosts are on the same network.
The routing metric is used by the \*Lrouted\*O daemon, with higher metrics
indicating that the route is less favorable.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.LI "\*Lspeed\*O"
Sets the \*Lspeed\*O at which the token ring adapter transmits and receives
on the token ring network.  The adapter speed must match the signal speed
of the token ring.  The \*Lspeed\*O value can be either 4 for a ring speed
of 4Mbs or 16 for 16Mbs.
.IP
After the interface is online, you can use the \*Lifconfig up\*O and
\*Ldown\*O options to change the \*Lspeed\*O value dynamically.  Stop adapter
transmission with \*Ldown\*O and set the \*Lspeed\*O in the same command
line.  Then specify \*Lup\*O without a \*Lspeed\*O value to restart the
adapter.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.AL
.LI
To query the status of serial line interface \*Lsl0\*O,
enter:
.iS
$  ifconfig sl0
sl0: flags=10<POINTOPOINT>
.\"Removed because this is not what I have seen on three xxx UNIX systems
.\"sl0:  flags=10<UP,POINTOPOINT,RUNNING>
.\"       inet  192.9.201.3 ---> 192.9.354.7 netmask 0xffffff00
.iE
.LI
To configure the local loopback interface, enter:
.iS
#  ifconfig lo0 inet  127.0.0.1 up
.iE
Only a user with superuser authority can modify the configuration
of a network interface.
.LI
To configure the token ring interface for a 4 Mbps token ring, enter:
.iS
#  ifconfig tra0 130.180.4.1 netmask 255.255.255.0 speed 4
.iE
.LI
To stop the token ring interface and start it for a 16 Mbps token ring, enter:
.iS
#  ifconfig tra0 down
#  ifconfig tra0 speed 16 up
.iE
.LE
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/ifconfig\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands: \*Lnetstat\*O(1),
.\"Begin Digital specific information.
\*Lpfconfig\*O(8), \*Lsr_config\*O(8)
.\"End Digital specific information.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
