.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: inetd.8,v $ $Revision: 3.3.5.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/20 13:23:50 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)inetd.8	6.6 (Berkeley)
.\" 
.TH inetd 8
.SH NAME
\*Linetd\*O \- Internet super\-server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Linetd\*O [\*L-d\*O] [\*Vconfigfile\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L-d\c\*O"
Dumps debugging messages to \*Lsyslogd\*O(8) and to standard error.
.LI "\*Vconfigfile\*O"
By default, this file is \*L/etc/inetd.conf\*O.  It contains
configuration information that the daemon reads at startup.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "inetd"
.iX "Internet Protocol"
.iX "protocol"
The \*Linetd\*O
daemon
should be run at boot time by \*Linetd\*O in
\*L/sbin/init.d.\*O
It then listens for connections on certain
Internet sockets.  When a connection is found on one
of its sockets, it decides what service the socket
corresponds to, and invokes a program to service the request.
After the program is
finished, it continues to listen on the socket (except in some cases that
are discussed later in this reference page.  Essentially,
\*Linetd\*O
allows running one daemon to invoke several others,
reducing load on the system.
.PP
Upon execution,
\*Linetd\*O
reads its configuration information from a configuration
file, which, by default, is
\*L/etc/inetd.conf\*O.
There must be an entry for each field of the configuration
file, with entries for each field separated by a tab or
a space.  Comments are denoted by a # (number sign) at the beginning
of a line.  There must be an entry for each field.  The
fields of the configuration file are as follows:
.\"Begin Digital specific modification.
.\"The following information was too wide for our format.
.oS
\*VServiceName SocketType ProtocolName  Wait/Nowait UserName\*O \e
\*VServerPath ServerArgs\*O
.oE
(Note: The backslash and the continuation of information on to a second
line is for display purposes only. In the configuration file, the
entries appear on a single line.)
.PP
.\"End Digital specific modification.
The
\*VServiceName\*O
entry is the name of a valid service in
the \*L/etc/services/\*O file.
For \*LInternal\*O services (discussed below), the service
name
\*Vmust\*O
be the official name of the service (that is, the first entry in
\*L/etc/services\*O).
.PP
The
\*VSocketType\*O
should be one of \*Lstream\*O, \*Ldgram\*O, \*Lraw\*O,
\*Lrdm\*O, or \*Lseqpacket\*O,
depending on whether the socket is a stream, datagram, raw,
reliably delivered message, or sequenced packet socket.
.PP
The
\*VProtocolName\*O
must be a valid protocol as given in
\*L/etc/protocols\*O.
Examples might be \*Ltcp\*O or \*Ludp\*O.
.PP
The
\*VWait/Nowait\*O
entry is applicable to datagram sockets only (other sockets should
have a \*VNOWAIT\*O entry in this space).  If a datagram server connects
to its peer, freeing the socket so
\*Linetd\*O
can receive further messages on the socket, it is said to be
a multithreaded server, and should use the \*Lnowait\*O
entry.  For datagram servers that process all incoming datagrams
on a socket and eventually time out, the server is said to be
single-threaded, and should use a wait entry.  \*LComsat\*O (\*Lbiff\*O)
and \*Ltalk\*O are both examples of the latter type of
datagram server.
\*Ltftpd\*O
is an exception; it is a datagram server that establishes pseudoconnections.
It must be listed as wait in order to avoid a race;
the server reads the first packet, creates a new socket,
and then forks and exits to allow
\*Linetd\*O
to check for new service requests to spawn new servers.
.PP
The
\*VUserName\*O
entry should contain the username of the user as whom the server
should run.  This allows for servers to be given less permission
than root.
The
\*VServerPath\*O
entry should contain the pathname of the program that is to be
executed by
\*Linetd\*O
when a request is found on its socket.  If
\*Linetd\*O
provides this service internally, this entry should
be \*Linternal\*O.
.PP
The arguments to the \*VServerPath\*O should be just as they
normally are, starting with argv[0], which is the name of
the program.  If the service is provided internally, the
word ``internal'' should take the place of this entry.
.PP
The
\*Linetd\*O
daemon provides several trivial services internally by use of
routines within itself.  These services are \*Lecho\*O,
\*Ldiscard\*O, \*Lchargen\*O (character generator), \*Ldaytime\*O
(human-readable time), and \*Ltime\*O (machine-readable time,
in the form of the number of seconds since midnight January
1, 1900).  All of these services are \*Ltcp\*O or \*Ludp\*O based.  (Note:
These services are initially turned off. To turn them on, you must
remove the comment leader of the service in \*L/etc/inetd.conf\*O and
send a \*LSIGHUP\*O signal to \*Linetd\*O.) For
details of these services, consult the appropriate RFC
from the Network Information Center.
.PP
The
\*Linetd\*O daemon rereads its configuration file when it receives a
hangup signal, \*LSIGHUP\*O.  Services may be added, deleted, or modified
when the configuration file is reread.
.PP
You can use the \*Linetd\*O daemon to start RPC daemons by adding them
to the \*Linetd.conf\*O file.  When you add an RPC service it must be
followed by a slash (/) and the range of version supported.  Also, the
protocol field must consist of the string \*Lrpc\*O followed by a slash
(/) and protocol listed in the \*L/etc/protocols\*O file.
.\" The following restriction is a Digital correction to the inetd.8 manpage.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The \*Linetd\*O daemon can start 500 instances of a server within an
interval of 60 seconds. This feature has been added to prevent \*Linetd\*O
from taking up all the available process slots the system has to offer.
When the limit is reached, \*Linetd\*O terminates the service.
.\" End Digital correction.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/inetd\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LI "\*L/var/run/inetd.pid\*O"
Process ID.
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcomsat\*O(8)
.PP
.\"I'm adding several daemons to this list for Sterling.
.\"I'm not making it Digital specific because we do not differentiate
.\"OSF and Digital manpages.
Daemons:  \*Lfingerd\*O(8), \*Lftpd\*O(8), \*Lrexecd\*O(8),
\*Lrlogind\*O(8), \*Lrpc.rquotad\*O(8), \*Lrpc.rstatd\*O(8),
\*Lrpc.rusersd\*O(8), \*Lrpc.rwalld\*O(8), \*Lrpc.sprayd\*O(8),
\*Lrshd\*O(8), \*Ltelnetd\*O(8), \*Ltftpd\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
