.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: install-mh.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 13:34:52 $
.\"
.TH install-mh 8
.SH NAME
install-mh \- initialize the MH environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /usr/lib/mh/install-mh
[
.B \-auto
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "install-mh program"
.iX "MH environment" "initialization"
When a user runs any MH program for the first time,
the program invokes \*Linstall-mh\*O (with the
.B \-auto
switch)
to query the user for the initial MH environment.
The user does not invoke this program directly.
The program prompts for the name of the directory
to be designated as the user's Mail directory.
If this directory does not exist, \*Linstall-mh\*O
asks if it should be created.
Normally, this directory should be under the user's home directory,
and has the default name of \*LMail\*O.
After \*Linstall-mh\*O has written the initial \*L\&.mh_profile\*O
for the user, control returns to the original MH program.
.PP
As with all MH commands, \*Linstall-mh\*O first consults the \*L$HOME\*O
environment variable to determine the user's home directory.
If \*L$HOME\*O is not set, then the \*L/etc/passwd\*O file is consulted.
.PP
If the
.B \-auto
option is used, the current folder is changed to \*L+inbox\*O.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To set the user's MH directory
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L$HOME/.mh_profile\*O
User profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lmh_profile\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
