.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: installupdate.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 20:58:05 $
.\"
.TH installupdate 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Linstallupdate\*O \- Installation Update
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/installupdate\*O [\*Loptions - none\*O] \*Vargument - <server:>,
<device>\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "installupdate command"
The
\*Linstallupdate\*O
command invokes the update installation procedure.  This is a
method of updating your system from one version of the operating system to a
later version. An update installation preserves many customizations made to
the version that is currently installed on your system.
.PP
If you use
\*Linstallupdate\*O
instead of doing a full installation, the amount of post-installation work
is greatly reduced.  Note that you will not be able to perform administrative
tasks such as changing disk partition tables, changing the kernel configuration
or adding new software subsets during an update install.  These tasks must be
performed when the update install is complete.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lsetld\*O(8), \*Ldoconfig\*O(8), \*Lupdadmin\*O(8).
.PP
See the "DEC OSF/1 Installation Guide."
.EQ
delim off
.EN
