.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: internet_mom.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/12 19:53:35 $
.\"
.TH internet_mom 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Linternet_mom\*O \- Internet Managed Object Module (MOM) component of the POLYCENTER Common Agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/internet_mom\*O
.sE
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "internet_mom command"
The \*Linternet_mom\*O process executes in conjunction with the other
Common Agent components to provide SNMP agent management functionality.
The other run-time Common Agent components consist of
the \*Lmold\*O process, the \*Lfddi_mom\*O process, the \*Ltrn_mom\*O
process, and the \*Lsnmp_pe\*O process.
.PP
The \*Lmold\*O process provides the registration
facility that relates managed object classes to the MOMs that support the
classes and also acts as a MOM lookup service for the Common Agent components.
The \*Lfddi_mom\*O process is the MOM component of the POLYCENTER Common
Agent that provides access to the FDDI MIB managed objects as defined by
\*VFDDI Management Information Base\*O (RFC 1285). The \*Ltrn_mom\*O process
is the MOM component of the POLYCENTER Common Agent that provides access to the
managed objects as defined by \*VIEEE 802.5 Token Ring MIB\*O (RFC 1231).
The \*Lsnmp_pe\*O process is the Common Agent's SNMP protocol
engine component that handles incoming SNMP management requests, sends SNMP
management responses, and issues SNMP traps.
.PP
The \*Linternet_mom\*O process is the mechanism within the
Common Agent that provides access to the variables described in
\*VManagement Information Base for
Network Management of TCP/IP-based Internets: MIB II\*O (RFC 1213).
The \*Linternet_mom\*O process also polls the operational status
of each TCP/IP-based interface and invokes a linkUp or linkDown trap
accordingly, as needed.  The polling interval can be configured
(see FILES section and \*Lsnmpsetup\*O(8)).
.PP
The \*Linternet_mom\*O process sits in the background and services
the following types of requests sent to it from the SNMP protocol engine:
.ML
.LI
GET requests for one or more MIB II variables.  The requested variables
must be valid, readable variables.
.LI
SET requests for one or more MIB II variables.  The requested variables
must be valid, modifiable variables.
.LI
ACTION (GET-NEXT) requests for one or more MIB II variables.
.LE
.PP
When the \*Linternet_mom\*O process completes the requested
operation, it returns the results of the operation to the SNMP protocol
engine, which then packages the response appropriately and ships the
response to the requesting Network Management Station.
.PP
Some of the variables in the IP routing table and the EGP group are
obtained from the \*Lgated\*O daemon, if it is running on the system.
If the \*Lgated\*O daemon is not running prior to starting the Common Agent
processes, the default values are used for these variables.
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L/etc/eca/internet_mom.conf\*O"
The Internet MOM configuration file contains
the default values for the MIB-II System Group
variables '\*LsysLocation\*O' and '\*LsysContact\*O'.  The
default values for \*LsysLocation\*O and \*LsysContact\*O
are "\*LUnknown\*O".  Also located in this file is
the default value for the Link Polling Interval
used internally by the \*Linternet_mom\*O process.
This value determines how often (in seconds)
the operational status of each TCP/IP-based
interface is checked for a state change.
State changes are reported with the \*LlinkUp\*O
and \*LlinkDown\*O SNMP traps.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lsnmpsetup\*O(8)
.PP
Daemons: \*Lfddi_mom\*O(8), \*Lgated\*O(8), \*Lmold\*O(8), \*Lsnmp_pe\*O(8),
\*Ltrn_mom\*O(8)
.PP
\*VManagement Information Base for Network Management of TCP/IP-based Internets: MIB II\*O (RFC 1213)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
