.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: intro.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/22 15:02:16 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)intro.8 3.1 3/13/92
.TH intro 8
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction to system maintenance and operation commands
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "intro(8) keyword"
.\" Removed because it is no longer applicable
.\".PP
.\"The
.\"Section 8 DEC OSF/1 reference pages are
.\"made up of an OSF-supplied component
.\"and a Digital-supplied component.
.\"The title line of an OSF-supplied
.\"reference page carries an "OSF" label while the Digital-supplied
.\"reference pages are labeled "Digital".
.\".PP
.\"When OSF-supplied code operates differently on Digital platforms or
.\"has Digital extensions, information is added to the OSF reference page
.\"and marked as
.\".br
.\"\*L[Digital only\*O.
.\".PP
.\"When needed, technical corrections have been made to the OSF-supplied
.\"reference pages.
.PP
The suffixes used on some reference pages are used only to allow reference
pages with the same base name to exist on DEC OSF/1 systems. When used,
suffixes are made up of one to four letters. See the \*Lman\*O(1)
reference page for more information on suffixes.
.PP
This section contains information related to system operation
and maintenance.  In particular, commands used to create new file
systems,
\*Lnewfs\*O ,
and verify the integrity of the file systems,
\*Lfsck\*O ,
\*Licheck\*O ,
and
\*Lncheck\*O
are described here.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
