.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: invsync.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/09 22:21:08 $
.\"
.TH invsync 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Linvsync\*O \- Synchronizes system inventory.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "invsync command"
\*L/usr/bin/invsync\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Linvsync\*O utility is a part of the Reinstallation Toolkit
(RITKIT).
You must have superuser privileges to run the \*Linvsync\*O utility,
and this utility must be invoked from the \*L/usr/.smdb.\*O directory.
The \*Linvsync\*O utility creates a Master Synchronization Inventory
(MSI) file and a Customized File Inventory (CFI) file.  These files
are used by the RITKIT process to preserve the customized or modified
state of your system in the event of a new installation.
.PP
The MSI file contains a complete list of files installed by the \*Lsetld\*O
utility, and the state of those files when they were installed.  The
CFI file contains the names of those files installed by the \*Lsetld\*O
utility that have been customized or modified since the installation.
The files listed in the CFI file will be overwritten if a new installation
of the operating system is performed.  To prevent losing
these customized files, the Reinstallation Toolkit (RITKIT) backs up those
entries listed in the CFI file before you perform a new installation of the
operating system.
.PP
To create the MSI file, the \*Linvsync\*O utility calls the \*Lusync\*O
utility.  Once the MSI file is created, the \*Linvsync\*O utility
then calls the \*Ludetect\*O utility to compare the state of the files
shown in the MSI file with the current state of the files installed on
the system.  If the state of a file differs, an entry is written to
the CFI file.
.PP
If there are entries in the CFI file that you do not want to back up,
you can edit the CFI file to remove these entries.  The CFI file is
written in the \*Lsetld\*O inventory file format, as is the MSI file.
For more information, see \*Lstl_inv\*O(4).
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L/usr/.smdb./*.lk\*O"
Subset lock files
.LI "\*L/usr/.smdb./*.inv\*O"
Subset inventory files
.LI "\*L/usr/.smdb./CFI\*O"
Customized File Inventory
.LI "\*L/usr/.smdb./MSI\*O"
Master Synchronization Inventory
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lgenufi\*O(8),
\*Ludetect\*O(8), \*Lupdmv\*O(8), \*Lupdmerge\*O(8), \*Lusync\*O(8)
.PP
Files: \*Lstl_inv\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
