.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: iprsetup.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/22 15:39:43 $
.\"
.TH iprsetup 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Liprsetup\*O \- Internet Protocol router setup
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/iprsetup -s\*O
.br
\*L/usr/sbin/iprsetup -sd\*O
.br
\*L/usr/sbin/iprsetup -r\*O
.br
\*L/usr/sbin/iprsetup -rd\*O
.br
\*L/usr/sbin/iprsetup -d\*O
.br
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Sets \*Lipforwarding\*O and \*Lipgateway\*O to one, which means the
system functions as an IP router.  This flag cannot be combined with
the \*L-r\*O flag.
.LI "\*L-r\*O"
Resets \*Lipforwarding\*O and \*Lipgateway\*O to zero, which means the
system does not function as an IP router. This flag cannot be combined
with the \*L-s\*O flag.
.LI "\*L-d\*O"
Displays the values of \*Lipforwarding\*O and \*Lipgateway\*O.
The values are displayed after the values are changed when combined with
the \*L-s\*O and \*L-r\*O flags.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "iprsetup command"
.iX "local area network" "setting up"
The \*Liprsetup\*O command sets the \*Lipgateway\*O and \*Lipforwarding\*O
variables in the running
kernel allowing your system to function as an Internet Protocol router.
.PP
The \*Liprsetup\*O command is automatically executed by \*Lnetsetup\*O when you
configure your network daemons.  It is also executed by the
\*L/sbin/init.d/inet\*O script when you reboot your system or restart the
network on your system.
.SH "FILES"
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/netsetup\*O"
Contains the \*L/usr/sbin/iprsetup\*O command.
.LI "\*L/sbin/init.d/inet\*O"
Contains the \*L/usr/sbin/iprsetup\*O command.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
