.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.TH it 8
.SH NAME
it \- configure a system after installation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "it command"
.iX "sytem configuration"
.sS
\*L/sbin/it\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
\*Lit\*O
program executes scripts before transferring control of the system to
the user, typically before the first user logs in.  The
\*Lit\*O
program executes programs that collect information such as system name,
passwords, timezone, and current date.
.PP
The
\*Lit\*O
program is run from
\*L/sbin/inittab\*O
whenever the system is booted or rebooted, or when a state transition
occurs for some other reason, such as within
\*Linit3\*O.
The
\*Lit\*O
program first determines which run state the system is coming up under.
Next
\*Lit\*O
turns on shared libraries and swap and then searches for any
\*L/sbin/it.d/\*O\*Vrun\-state\*O
directories, where
\*Vrun\-state\*O
names a system run state; for example,
\*L2.d\*O,
\*L3.d\*O,
\*L23.d\*O,
and so forth.  If any such directories exist,
\*Lit\*O
collects the names of all files in those directories.  These files are
typically links to files in the
\*L/sbin/it.d/bin\*O
directory and are created beforehand by
\*Litruns\*O(8).
After collecting the file names,
\*Lit\*O
sorts them, eliminates duplicate references, orders the names as
specified by the data file
\*L/sbin/it.d/data/options.mask\*O,
executes the files, and finally removes the files it executed.  After
all the files collected from the run-state directories have been
handled, \*Lit\*O exits.
.PP
The
\*L/sbin/it.d/data/options.mask\*O
file contains a single line with a list of file names separated by
colons.  The
\*Lit\*O
command executes collected files in the order in which they appear from
left to right in the
\*Loptions.mask\*O
file.  Programs not listed in the
\*Loptions.mask\*O
file are executed after those defined in
\*Loptions.mask\*O.
These
.if t ``unspecified''
.if n "unspecified"
programs are run in the order into which they were initially sorted;
that order is controlled by the
\*LLC_COLLATE\*O
environmental variable and the specifications in the
\*L/usr/lib/nls/loc/\*O\*Vlocale\*O
files.
.SH FILES
.VL 30
.LI "\*L/sbin/it.d/data/options.mask\*O"
Specifies execution priorities of files to be run by
\*Lit\*O.
.LI "\*L/sbin/it.d/bin/\*O\*Vfilename\*O"
Files to be linked by
\*Litruns\*O(8)
for execution by
\*Lit\*O.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:
\*Litruns\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
