.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: killall.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/28 19:46:05 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.TH killall 8
.SH NAME
\*Lkillall\*O \- Terminates all processes started by the user, except the calling process
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/usr/sbin/killall\*O [\*L-\*O | \*L-\*O\*Vsignal_name\*O | \*L-\*Vsignal_number\*O]
.PP 
\*L/usr/sbin/killall\*O \*L-l\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP 
.iX "killall command"
.iX "processes" "terminating"
.iX "terminating" "processes"
.iX "processes" "calling"
.iX "calling process"
This command provides a convenient means of killing all processes
created by the shell that you control.
When started by the superuser, the
\*Lkillall\*O command kills all processes that can be terminated,
except those processes that started it, the kernel processes, and
processes \*L0\*O and \*L1\*O (\*Linit\*O)
.SS Security Configuration
.PP 
This command is modified in all security configurations of the system.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note
.SS "System V Compatibility"
The root of the directory tree that contains the commands modified
for SVID-2 compliance is specified in the file \*L/etc/svid2_path\*O. You
can use \*L/etc/svid2_profile\*O as the basis for, or to include
in, your \*L.profile\*O.  The file \*L/etc/svid2_profile\*O reads 
\*L/etc/svid2_path\*O and
sets the first entries in the \*LPATH\*O environment variable so that
the modified SVID-2 commands are found first.
.PP
When you use the \*Lkillall\*O command in the SVID-2 habitat, 
entering the hyphen (\-) character before the 
\*Vsignal_number\*O parameter is optional.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L-\*O"
The hyphen character (without an argument) sends a \*LSIGTERM\*O
signal initially and then sends a
\*LSIGKILL\*O signal to all processes that survive for 30
seconds after receipt of the first signal.
This gives processes that catch the
\*LSIGTERM\*O signal an opportunity to clean up.
.LI "\*L-\*O\*Vsignal_name\*O"
The hyphen character (with a signal name argument) sends the
specified signal to processes.
.LI "\*L-\*O\*Vsignal_number\*O"
The hyphen character (with a signal number argument) sends the specified
signal, either a name, stripped of the \*LSIG\*O
prefix (such as \*LKILL\*O), or a number (such as \*L9\*O).
For information about signal names and numbers, see the \*Lsignal\*O() system
call.
.LI "\*L-l\*O"
Lists signal names in numerical order (as given in
the \*L/usr/include/signal.h\*O file), stripped of the common
\*LSIG\*O prefix.
.LE 
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
.AL
.LI
To stop all background processes that have started, enter:
.iS
killall
.iE
This sends all background processes signal 9 (the \*Lkill\*O signal, also
called \*LSIGKILL\*O).
.LI
To stop all background processes, giving them a chance to clean up, enter:
.iS
killall -
.iE
This sends signal 15 (\*LSIGTERM\*O), waits 30 seconds, and
then sends signal 9 (\*LSIGKILL\*O).
.LI
To send a specific signal to the background processes, enter:
.iS
killall -2
.iE
This sends signal \*L2\*O (\*LSIGINT\*O) to the background processes.
.LI
To list the signal names in numerical order, stripped of the \*LSIG\*O prefix,
enter:
.iS
killall -l
.iE
This displays a list of signals, which may vary from system to system.
.LE 
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/killall\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
Calls: \*Lkill\*O(2), \*Lsigaction\*O(2), \*Lsignal\*O(2)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
