.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: kmknod.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 13:35:20 $
.\"
.\"
.TH kmknod 8
.SH NAME
\*Lkmknod\*O - Creates device special files for kernel layered products
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lkmknod\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "kmknod command"
.PP
The \*Lkmknod\*O command obtains information from a running kernel and
determines if any device special files must be created for 
use by the kernel layered products that are statically configured.  
.PP
To enable \*Lkmknod\*O to create device special files, 
the statically configured kernel layered products must have been 
registered with the \*Lkreg\*O command.  
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.rS 5
To create device special files for the kernel layered products that 
are loadable modules, such as loadable device drivers, use the 
\*Lcfgmgr\*O command instead of the \*Lkmknod\*O command.
.sp 6p
.rE
.PP
The \*Lkmknod\*O command first deletes any files that have matching
names and any files that have both matching major numbers and 
matching device types (block or character).  After any matching 
files are deleted, the \*Lkmknod\*O command creates all the required device
special files.  
.PP
The \*L/etc/inittab\*O file contains instructions to invoke the 
\*Lkmknod\*O command at boot time.
.PP
You must be superuser to invoke the \*Lkmknod\*O command.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/etc/inittab\*O"
Provides the \*Linit\*O program with instructions for creating and
running initialization processes.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lkmknod\*O(8), \*Lkreg\*O
.PP
\*ESystem Administration\*O
.PP
\*VWriting Device Drivers: An Advanced Tutorial\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
