.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: kreg.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/01 16:23:31 $
.\"
.\" 
.TH kreg 8
.SH NAME
\*Lkreg\*O - Maintains the system file that registers kernel layered products
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/sbin/kreg\*O \*L-d\*O \*Vsubset\*O [\*L-c\*O \*Vname\*O] \*L|\*O \*L-l\*O \*Vvendor\*O [\*L-c\*O \*Vname\*O] \*Vsubset\*O \*Vdirectory\*O
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-c\*O \*Vname\*O"
Causes the specified layered product to be loaded or deleted from the
\*VNAME\*O\*L.list\*O file for the given name in addition to the
\*L/usr/sys/conf/.product.list\*O file.  Note that the \*VNAME\*O
parameter is case-sensitive and must exactly match the \*VNAME\*O prefix
for the desired \*VNAME\*O\*L.list\*O file.
.LI "\*L-d\*O \*Vsubset\*O"
Deletes the entry for the specified layered product when you remove it
from the system.
.LI "\*L-l\*O \*Vvendor\*O \*Vsubset\*O \*Vdirectory\*O"
Loads the data that controls how to include the layered product in the
kernel build process.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "kreg command"
.PP
The \*Lkreg\*O command maintains the \*L/usr/sys/conf/.product.list\*O system
file, which registers static kernel layered products.
The \*Lkreg\*O command creates the file
if it does not exist.  The file enables system utilities or user
supplied commands to locate the kernel parts of a layered product, and it
provides information about layered products.
.PP
The kernel tools use the \*L/usr/sys/conf/.product.list\*O file to
build a layered product
into the kernel.  You can use the file to register a static kernel layered
product that has been loaded into the system.  The file also can be
used by the layered product's Software Control Program (SCP), which is
called by the \*Lsetld\*O command.
.PP
You copy the \*L/usr/sys/conf/.product.list\*O file into the file
that is used to extend the kernel configuration files and that has
the following syntax:
.sS
\*L/usr/sys/conf/\*O\*VNAME\*O\*L.list\*O
.sE
.PP
The \*VNAME\*O variable specifies the system name that also is used
in the system configuration file that has the following syntax:
.sS
\*L/usr/sys/conf/\*O\*VNAME\*O
.sE
.PP
The \*Ldoconfig\*O command also will copy the \*L/usr/sys/conf/.product.list\*O
file.
.PP
You can use the the \*L-c\*O option to load or delete your layered
product into a specific \*VNAME\*O\*L.list\*O file as well as the
\*L.product.list\*O file.  This is useful if you want to load your
layered product into a specific \*VNAME\*O\*L.list\*O file without
requiring the user to either copy the entire \*L.product.list\*O file to
the \*VNAME\*O\*L.list\*O file or to manually edit the \*VNAME\*O\*L.list\*O
file.
.PP
The \*Lkreg\*O command must be invoked from the
\*Lroot\*O (\*L/\*O) directory.  The command can be used only for subsets that
are loaded by using the \*Lsetld\*O command.  Also, you must be
superuser to use the \*Lkreg\*O command.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/sys/conf/.product.list\*O"
Contains kernel layered product information.
.LI "\*L/usr/sys/conf/\*O\*VNAME\*O\*L.list\*O"
Used to extend the kernel configuration files.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*L/sbin/kreg\*O(8), \*Lsetld\*O(8), \*Ldoconfig\*O(8).
.PP
\*ESystem Administration\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
