.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: last.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/10/20 16:15:32 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" last1.man
.\" nm_03.08.90
.\"hah_12.07.90
.TH last 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Llast\*O \- Displays information about previous logins
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/bin/last\*O [\*L-n\*O] [\*Vname\&...\*O] [\*Vtty\&...\*O]
.sE 
.SH "FLAGS"
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L\-n\*O"
Limits the output to \*Vn\*O number of record lines.
.LE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "last command" "listing logins"
.iX "login" "listing"
The \*Llast\*O command displays, in reverse chronological order,
all previous logins and logouts entered in the currently active
\*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O file. The list of output records can be restricted
to \*Vn\*O number of record lines if the \*L\-n\*O flag is specified
The \*Llast\*O command also displays logins and logouts by the user
specified with the \*Vname\*O parameter, and logins and logouts from terminals
specified with the \*Vtty\*O parameter. The \*Vtty\*O terminal references can
be fully named (for example, \*Ltty0\*O) or abbreviated (for example, 
\*L0\*O). For each process, the following information is displayed
according to session, with the most recent session listed first:
.ML
.LI
Time session began
.LI
Duration of session
.LI
The tty terminal on which session took place
.LE 
.PP 
The following information is included when applicable:
.ML
.LI
Terminations when rebooting
.LI
Continuing sessions
.LE
.PP 
If the \*Llast\*O command is interrupted, an indication of how
far the search has progressed in the \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O file is provided.
If the command is interrupted by a \*Lquit\*O signal, an indication as
to how far the search has progressed is provided, but the search continues.
.PP 
To obtain information about the mean time between reboots, use the
word \*Lshutdown\*O as the \*Vname\*O parameter.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
.AL
.LI
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Fixed per QAR 5902 - This example DOES NOT show login/outs
.\" by root from console, but as shown:
The following example displays all recorded logins and logouts for 
user \*Lroot\*O and all recorded logins and logouts 
from the \*Lconsole\*O terminal:
.iS
last root console
.iE
.LI
The following example displays the time between system reboots:
.iS
% last shutdown
shutdown  ~                             Fri Aug 28 17:59
shutdown  ~                             Mon Aug 17 09:07

wtmp begins Mon Aug 17 08:51
.iE
In the previous example, the \*Lshutdown\*O pseudouser is used to 
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Corrected a typo per QAR 6104.
list the mean time between system reboots.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.LE 
.SH "FILES"
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/bin/last\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.\" Took out this file per QAR 5902
.LI "\*L/usr/include/utmp.h\*O"
Header file defining structures used to organize login information.
.\" End Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.LI "\*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O"
The login/logout database file.
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands: \*Llastcomm\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
