.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: lastcomm.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 11:33:04 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"  lstcom1.man
.\" nm_03.08.90
.TH lastcomm 8
.SH NAME
\*Llastcomm \*O \- Outputs information about the last commands executed
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*Llastcomm\*O [\*VCommand\*O] [\*VName\*O] [\*VTty\*O]
.sE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
The \*Llastcomm\*O command outputs information about all previously executed
commands that are recorded in the \*L/var/adm/pacct\*O file in reverse
chronological order.
.PP 
You may specify a particular command with the \*VCommand\*O parameter,
a particular user with the \*VName\*O parameter, and a particular terminal as
the command source with the \*VTty\*O parameter. Output is then restricted to
the specified parameters. A \*VTty\*O terminal may be named fully (for
example, \*Ltty0\*O) or abbreviated (for example, \*L0\*O).
.PP 
The following information is displayed for each process:
.ML
.LI
Name of the command under which the process was called.
.LI
Any flags collected when the command was executed. The following flags are
valid:
.VL
.LI \*L-S\*O
Command issued by the superuser.
.LI \*L-F\*O
Command ran after a fork, but without an \*Lexec\*O system call following it.
.LE
.LI
Name of the user who issued the command.
.LI
The terminal the command was started from.
.LI
Seconds of CPU time used.
.LI
Time the process started.
.LE 
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.AL
.LI
To display information about all previously executed commands
recorded in the \*L/var/adm/pacct\*O file, enter:
.iS
lastcomm
.iE
.LI
To display information about commands named \*La.out\*O executed by
the \*Lroot\*O user on terminal \*Lttyd0\*O, enter:
.iS
lastcomm a.out root ttyd0
.iE
.LE 
.SH "FILES"
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/bin/lastcomm\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/pacct\*O"
The current accounting file.
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands:  \*Llast\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
