.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.TH latcp 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Llatcp\*O \- Local Area Transport (LAT) Control Program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/latcp\*O [ \*Vflags\*O ]
.sE
.PP
The following list provides the syntax for the flags and the subordinate
flags you can use with
the \*Llatcp\*O command. For more information, see the FLAGS section.
.sS
\*Llatcp -s\*O
.sE
.sS
\*Llatcp -h\*O
.sE
.sS
\*Llatcp -A -a\*Vservice\*O [\*L-i\*Vdescription\*O] [\*L-o\*O]
.sE
.sS
\*Llatcp -A -p\*Vport_name\*O \*L-H\*Vnode_name\*O {[\*L-R\*Vremote_port_name\*O]
.nL
[\*L-V\*Vservice_name\*O]} [\*L-Q\*O]
.sE
.sS
\*Llatcp -D\*O {\*L-a\*Vservice\*O | \*L-p\*Vtty\*O}
.sE
.sS
\*Llatcp -i\*Vdescription\*O \*L-a\*Vservice\*O
.sE
.sS
\*Llatcp -g\*Vlist\*O \*L-a\*Vservice\*O
.sE
.sS
\*Llatcp -G\*Vlist\*O \*L-a\*Vservice\*O
.sE
.sS
\*Llatcp -x\*Vrating\*O \*L-a\*Vservice\*O
.sE
.sS
\*Llatcp -n\*Vname\*O
.sE
.sS
\*Llatcp -m\*Vtime\*O
.sE
.sS
\*Llatcp -d\*O [\*L-C\*O | \*L-N\*O | \*L-S\*O | \*L-P\*O [\*L-p\*Vport_name\*O | \*L-L\*O | \*L-I\*O] ]
.sE
.sS
\*Llatcp -e\*Vadapter\*O
.sE
.sS
\*Llatcp -E\*Vadapter\*O
.sE
.sS
\*Llatcp -z\*O
.sE
.sS
\*Llatcp -r\*O
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Starts LAT and enables connections from LAT terminal servers to
the host. If the following LAT parameters have not been set, they take on the
default values:
.ML
.LI
Node name \(em The default value is the host name.
.LI
Multicast timer \(em The default value is 60 seconds.
.LI
Ethernet adapter \(em The default is all Ethernet adapters.
.LI
Service name \(em The default value is the host name.
.LI
Service description \(em The default value is ``DEC OSF/1 Version \*VX.X\*O LAT SERVICE.''
.LI
Rating \(em The default is dynamic rating.
.\".LI
.\"Create a service or map an applications port (\*L-A\*O)
.LI
Group code \(em The default value is 0.
.LE
.LI "\*L-h\*O"
Shuts down LAT and disables connections from LAT terminal
servers to the host.
.LI "\*L-m\*Vtime\*O"
Sets multicast transmission timer to the specified time
in seconds. A node advertises its presence to the LAT servers
by sending out a multicast message over the network.
The multicast timer determines the time between the multicast
messages. Valid
intervals range from 10 to 180 seconds. (The default is 60 seconds.)
.LI "\*L-n\*Vname\*O"
Sets the node name to the name specified with the \*Vname\*O argument.
The node name specifies the name by which the node will be
known. The node name must be unique within the LAT network.
The node name can be from 1 to 16 of the following ASCII characters:
.ML
.LI
Uppercase letters A to Z
.LI
Lowercase letters a to z
.IP
Lowercase letters are converted to uppercase.
.LI
Digits 0 to 9
.LI
Underscore (_)
.LI
Hyphen (-)
.IP
You cannot use a hyphen as the first character.
.LE
.IP
The default node name is the value of the
\*Lutsname.nodename\*O field defined in \*L<sys/utsname.h>\*O.
If the \*Lutsname.nodename\*O field contains a period (.), the LAT node
name will be truncated to contain only the characters that come before
the period.
.LI "\*L-g\*Vlist\*O"
Enables the service node groups specified in the list. Group codes can
range from 0 to 255. Group 0 is enabled by default for all service nodes
and servers.
.IP
The syntax for a \*Llatcp\*O command with the \*L-g\*O flag is as
follows:
.sS
\*Llatcp -g\*Vlist\*O \*L-a\*Vservice\*O
.sp
.sE
For example:
.iS
.sp
# latcp -g 128 -asiteapp
.sp
.iE
This example specifies a single node group of 128 for the service
\*Lsiteapp\*O. If you enter a group list, use commas (,) to
separate individual groups. The following example
shows multiple node groups being specified for the service \*Ltransapp\*O:
.iS
.sp
# latcp -g 56,5,102,10,20,30,40,50,60,...,
  110,150,200,210,255 -atransapp
.sp
.iE
Note that the individual group codes are separated by commas with no spaces.
If the string exceeds the
width of the screen, it must wrap over to the following line.
You cannot use a carriage return
to break a string.
.IP
The \*L-a\*O\*Vservice\*O flag is required by the \*L-g\*O
flag. It identifies a service name. The service name can be
from 1 to 16 of the following ASCII characters:
.ML
.LI
Uppercase letters A to Z
.LI
Lowercase letters a to z
.IP
Lowercase letters are converted to uppercase.
.LI
Digits 0 to 9
.LI
Period (.)
.LI
Underscore (_)
.LI
Hyphen (-)
.IP
You cannot use hyphen as the first character.
.LE
.LI "\*L-G\*Vlist\*O"
Removes the previously enabled groups specified by \*Vlist\*O. Group
codes can range from 0 to 255. If you enter more than one group code,
you must separate the codes with commas. Do not put a blank space
between the comma and the next group code. You cannot use a carriage
return to break a string.
.IP
The syntax for a \*Llatcp\*O command with the \*L-G\*O flag is as
follows:
.sS
\*Llatcp -G\*Vlist\*O \*L-a\*Vservice\*O
.sp
.sE
.IP
The \*L-a\*Vservice\*O flag is required by the \*L-G\*O flag.
It identifies a service name.
.LI "\*L-A\*O"
Creates a service or creates and maps an applications port on the host
node.
.IP
When you use the \*L-A\*O flag you must specify either a service name
(using the \*L-a\*O flag) or an applications port (using the \*L-p\*O
flag). The \*L-a\*O and \*L-p\*O subordinate flags are mutually
exclusive. If you do not specify either of these flags,
you receive an error message.
.\".PP
.\"The following paragraphs explain the \*L-a\*O and \*L-p\*O flags.
.VL 4
.LI "\*L-a\*O\*Vservice\*O"
Identifies a service name. When creating a service, the service name is
set to the input name \*Vservice\*O. This subordinate flag is required, if
you do not specify \*L-p\*O. The \*L-a\*O and \*L-p\*O flags are
mutually exclusive.
.IP
The syntax for a \*Llatcp\*O command with the \*L-A -a\*O flags is as
follows:
.sS
\*Llatcp -A -a\*Vservice\*O [\*L-i\*Vdescription\*O] [\*L-o\*O]
.sp
.sE
.IP
The \*L-i\*O and \*L-o\*O flags are subordinate to the \*L-a\*O flag.
.\"They are explained in the following paragraphs:
.VL 4
.LI "\*L-i\*Vdescription\*O"
Sets the service identification to the value specified by the
\*Vdescription\*O field. The \*Vdescription\*O field can be up to 64
characters in length. If the string contains one or more spaces,
you must enclose it in double quotation marks (""). This subordinate flag is
optional. If you do not specify a
value for the \*Vdescription\*O field, the default identification string
(``DEC OSF/1 Version \*VX.X\*O LAT Service'') is used.
.LI "\*L-o\*O"
Indicates that the service you are adding is an optional service
(such as an application service). For example, you must use the
\*L-o\*O flag when adding the service used for the LAT/Telnet gateway.
.IP
Services that are added without the \*L-o\*O flag are default services
and are used for making interactive connections to the DEC OSF/1 LAT
host through \*Lgetty\*O routines that are spawned in the
\*L/etc/inittab\*O file. Optional services that are added with the \*L-o\*O
flag are used along with specialized applications.  For more
information, refer to the guide to
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O.
.LE
.LI "\*L-p\*Vport_name\*O"
Identifies the port (terminal line) to be set to map an applications
port.
.IP
The syntax for a \*Llatcp\*O command with the \*L-A -p\*O flags is as
follows:
.sS
\*Llatcp -A -p\*Vport_name\*O \*L-H\*Vnode_name\*O {[\*L-R\*Vremote_port_name\*O]
.nL
[\*L-V\*Vservice_name\*O]} [\*L-Q\*O]
.sp
.sE
.IP
The port name is specified in the form \*Ltty\*VWX\*O. Where \*VW\*O is
a number from 0 to 9 and \*VX\*O is an alphanumeric character from 0 to
9, a to z, or A to Z. This subordinate flag is required, if you do not specify
\*L-a\*O. The \*L-p\*O and \*L-a\*O flags are mutually exclusive.
.IP
You can map an applications port, if no \*Lgetty\*O routine has been started
for the port in the \*L/etc/inittab\*O file. The applications port name
(\*L-p\*O) and the remote node (server) name (\*L-H\*O), plus one or
both of the server port name (\*L-R\*O) and remote service name
(\*L-V\*O) must be specified. If a connection is to be made to a
specific port for a service, specify both the server port name and
the remote service name. No default values are available for the
input fields when creating an applications port.
.IP
The following flags are subordinate to the \*L-p\*O flag: \*L-H\*O,
\*L-R\*O, \*L-V\*O, and \*L-Q\*O:
.\"They are explained in the following paragraphs:
.VL 4
.LI "\*L-H\*Vnodename\*O"
Identifies the remote node (terminal server) to be mapped to
the line specified by \*L-p\*Vport_name\*O. The \*L-H\*O flag is
required when using the \*L-p\*O flag. The remote node name can be from
1 to 16 of the following ASCII characters:
.ML
.LI
Uppercase letters A to Z
.LI
Lowercase letters a to z
.LI
Digits 0 to 9
.LI
Period (.)
.LI
Underscore (_)
.LI
Hyphen (-)
.IP
You cannot use hyphen as the first character.
.LE
.LI "\*L-R\*Vremote_port_name\*O"
Identifies the name of the remote port on a server that is to be
mapped to the line specified by \*L-p\*Vport_name\*O. The remote port
name can be from 1 to 16 of the following ASCII characters:
.ML
.LI
Uppercase letters A to Z
.LI
Lowercase letters a to z
.LI
Digits 0 to 9
.LI
Period (.)
.LI
Underscore (_)
.LI
Hyphen (-)
.IP
You cannot use hyphen as the first character.
.LE
.ne 7.1
.LI "\*L-V\*Vservice_name\*O"
Identifies the service name offered by the server that is to be
mapped to the line specified by \*L-p\*Vport_name\*O. The service
name can be from 1 to 16 of the following ASCII characters:
.ML
.LI
Uppercase letters A to Z
.LI
Lowercase letters a to z
.LI
Digits 0 to 9
.LI
Period (.)
.LI
Underscore (_)
.LI
Hyphen (-)
.IP
You cannot use hyphen as the first character.
.LE
.LI "\*L-Q\*O"
Specifies that the type of access requested for the remote
port is nonqueued. There are two types of access requests to a
port: queued and nonqueued. A queued or nonqueued request is
accepted by the server if the remote port is free. If the remote port
is busy and queuing is enabled on the server, then a queued request
is queued on the server until the port becomes available while a
nonqueued request is rejected.
.IP
If you do not specify the \*L-Q\*O flag,
the applications port is set to queued by default.
.LE
.LE
.LI "\*L-D\*O"
Deletes a service or unmaps an applications port from the host
node. You must specify either a service (\*L-a\*O) or a port (\*L-p\*O)
with the \*L-D\*O flag.
.IP
The syntax for a \*Llatcp\*O command with the \*L-D\*O flag is as
follows:
.sS
\*Llatcp -D\*O {\*L-a\*Vservice\*O | \*L-p\*Vport_name\*O}
.sp
.sE
.IP
When a service is deleted, it is no longer available to
terminal server users. If a service name is not specified,
an error message is generated.
.IP
When an applications port is deleted, any active session is stopped and
the port is unmapped from its associated virtual terminal line.
.IP
The \*L-a\*O and \*L-p\*O flags are explained in the following list:
.VL 4
.LI "\*L-a\*Vservice\*O"
Deletes the named service.
.LI "\*L-p\*Vport_name\*O"
Stops any active session and disassociates the named port (terminal
line) from its mapped applications port.
.LE
.LI "\*L-i\*Vdescription\*O"
Sets the service identification to the specified value. The \*Vdescription\*O
field can be up to 64 characters long. If the field contains more than
one word, you must enclose the string in double quotation marks.
.IP
The \*L-a\*Vservice\*O is subordinate to the \*L-i\*O flag and is
required. You use it to change the service identification for the named service.
.LI "\*L-x\*Vrating\*O"
Sets the static rating to rating and disables dynamic rating. Specified
ratings can range from 255 (highly available to users) to 0 (not
available to users).
.IP
If dynamic rating is enabled, service ratings (which are placed in
multicast messages) are calculated dynamically on the basis of the
service node's activity.
.IP
When dynamic rating is disabled, the static rating is placed in the
multicast message.
.IP
Specifying \-1 as the rating value disables static rating and begins
dynamic rating. Service ratings are then calculated dynamically on the
basis of the service node's activity.
.IP
The \*L-a\*Vservice\*O flag is subordinate to the \*L-x\*O flag and is
required. It specifies the service.
.LI "\*L-d\*O"
Display characteristics of the host node. This flag can be combined
with other flags to provide detailed displays (such as node counter
information, virtual circuit counter information, virtual circuit
information, and applications port information).
.IP
The syntax for a \*Llatcp\*O command with the \*L-d\*O flag is as
follows:
.sS
\*Llatcp -d\*O [\*L-C\*O | \*L-N\*O | \*L-S\*O | \*L-P\*O [\*L-p\*Vport_name\*O | \*L-L\*O | \*L-I\*O] ]
.sp
.sE
.IP
This command shows the LAT parameters at their current setting. For
example:
.iS
.sp
\*C# \*L/usr/sbin/latcp -d\*O
.iE
.oS
Node name:  NODE
Multicast timer:  60 seconds
LAT version:  5   ECO:  1
Selected Interface Name(s): ln0
LAT Protocol is active
Service information
        Service name: SERVICE1
        Service ID:   DEC OSF/1 ... LAT SERVICE
        Rating:       Dynamic         22
        Groups:       0
Service information
        Service name: SERVICE2
        Service ID:   DEC OSF/1 ... LAT SERVICE
        Rating:       Dynamic         17
        Groups:       0
.sp
.oE
The following flags are subordinate to the \*L-d\*O flag: \*L-C\*O,
\*L-N\*O, \*L-S\*O, and \*L-P\*O. These flags are mutually exclusive.
.\"They are explained in the following paragraphs:
.VL 4
.LI "\*L-C\*O"
Displays counter information for the servers with which the host
currently has a virtual circuit. For example:
.iS
.sp
\*C# \*L/usr/sbin/latcp -d -C\*O
.iE
.oS
LATCP Server Counters for SERVER1
      390 Frames received
      402 Frames transmitted
        7 Retransmissions
.sp
.oE
.LI "\*L-N\*O"
Displays counter information for the host node. For example:
.iS
.sp
\*C# \*L/usr/sbin/latcp -d -N\*O
.iE
.oS
LATCP Node Counters
        1066  Receive frames
           0  Receive errors
           3  Receive duplicates
        1087  Transmit frames
           6  Retransmissions
.sp
.oE
.LI "\*L-S\*O"
Displays the address of the servers with which the host currently has a
virtual circuit. For example:
.iS
.sp
\*C# \*L/usr/sbin/latcp -d -S\*O
.iE
.oS
LATCP Server Characteristics for SERVER1
Ethernet address:  08-00-2B-06-B7-F8
.sp
.oE
.LI "\*L-P\*O"
Displays the characteristics for ports on the host node. If this flag
is issued without an argument, all ports on the host node are displayed.
.IP
The following flags are subordinate to the \*L-P\*O flag: \*L-p\*O,
\*L-L\*O, and \*L-I\*O. These flags are mutually exclusive.
.\"They are explained in the following paragraphs:
.VL 4
.LI "\*L-p\*Vport_name\*O"
Identifies a port name for which data is to be printed.
.LI "\*L-L\*O"
Sets the display of port characteristics to display all applications
ports.
.LI "\*L-I\*O"
Sets the display of port characteristics to display all interactive
ports.
.LE
.LE
.LI "\*L-z\*O"
Zeroes all counters displayed by the \*L-d -C\*O and \*L-d -N\*O options.
You can test system performance over time by zeroing
the counters and observing the information that accumulates.
.LI "\*L-e\*Vadapter\*O"
Adds the specified adapter to the list of adapters over which LAT can
run.
.LI "\*L-E\*Vadapter\*O"
Removes the specified adapter from the list of adapters over which LAT
can run.
.LI "\*L-r\*O"
Resets the LAT parameters. When you issue a reset command, the following
LAT parameters take on the default values:
.ML
.LI
Node name \(em The default value is the host name.
.LI
Multicast timer \(em The default value is 60 seconds.
.LI
Service name \(em The default value is the host name.
.LI
Service description \(em The default value is ``DEC OSF/1 Version \*VX.X\*O LAT SERVICE.''
.LI
Rating \(em The default is dynamic rating.
.\".LI
.\"Create a service or map an applications port (\*L-A\*O)
.LE
.IP
All services (except the service with the default values) are deleted.
If that service was an optional service, it is reset to a default
service. (A default service is a service that is added without the
\*L-o\*O flag and is used for making interactive connections to the
DEC OSF/1 LAT host through \*Lgetty\*O routines that are spawned in the
\*L/etc/inittab\*O file.)
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "latcp command"
.iX "LAT protocol"
.iX "latcp command" "parameters"
The \*Llatcp\*O utility provides the essential functions for LAT
control and management. It allows nonprivileged users to display host,
port, circuit, and server information and privileged users to perform the
following tasks:
.ML
.LI
Add, delete, change, and display service and port attributes.
.LI
Add and delete Ethernet interface adapters.
.LI
Change the node name.
.LI
Enable and disable node group codes.
.LI
Change the node's service rating.
.LI
Display and reset counter information.
.LI
Start and stop the LAT driver.
.LE
.PP
The following command is included in the \*L/sbin/init.d/lat\*O
script:
.oS
  latcp -s
.oE
.PP
When LAT automatic startup and shutdown is enabled, the
\*L/sbin/init.d/lat\*O file automatically starts LAT upon reaching run
level 3 and automatically stops LAT when exiting run level 3.
LAT automatic startup and shutdown can be enabled or disabled with the
\*Llatsetup\*O utility.
.PP
The \*Llatcp\*O program only affects one operation per invocation.
Therefore, you can only specify one command on a command line.
.SS Changing Adapters
The \*Llatcp -E\*O command removes an adapter in use and
the \*Llatcp -e\*O command specifies another adapter.  After changing an
adapter, issue a \*Llatcp -s\*O command to force a service announcement
message.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The \*Llatcp\*O utility prints error messages to \*Lstderr\*O. All messages are
self-explanatory.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Files: \*Llat\*O(7), \*Llatsetup\*O(8)
.PP
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
