.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: latsetup.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.6.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/10 17:40:15 $
.\"
.TH latsetup 8
.PP
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Llatsetup\*O \- Local Area Transport (LAT) setup utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/latsetup\*O [\*L-nocurses\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-nocurses\*O"
Specifies that \*Llatsetup\*O is run in non-curses and non-menu-driven
mode. Use this option if the terminal you are using does not support
curses.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "latsetup"
.iX "Local Area Transport (LAT)" "latsetup script"
The \*Llatsetup\*O command provides an interactive, menu-driven facility
for administrating Local Area Transport (LAT) on your system. To use
\*Llatsetup\*O, LAT must be built into the running kernel,
your system must be at run level 3, and you must be logged in
as superuser.
.PP
The \*Llatsetup\*O utility allows you to create LAT device special
files, add or delete \*Lgetty\*O entries to or from
the \*L/etc/inittab\*O file, execute
\*Linit q\*O, start or stop the LAT driver, and enable or disable LAT
automatic startup and shutdown.
.PP
If LAT is not configured into the running kernel, \*Llatsetup\*O only
allows you to remove the LAT entries from the \*L/etc/inittab\*O file.
.PP
If you enable LAT automatic startup and shutdown, the
\*L/sbin/init.d/lat\*O script starts LAT upon reaching run level 3 and
stops LAT upon leaving run level 3.
.PP
To run \*Llatsetup\*O, login as superuser and enter the following command:
.iS
# \*L/usr/sbin/latsetup
.iE
.PP
Running multiple \*Llatsetup\*O processes concurrently on the same
machine can cause erroneous information to be presented to the
\*Llatsetup\*O user and can corrupt the \*L/etc/inittab\*O file.
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.RS 5
The \*Llatsetup\*O program requires the \*L/dev/streams/kinfo\*O device.
Each time you invoke \*Llatsetup\*O it executes \*Lstrsetup -i\*O to
ensure that this device exists and is set up appropriately.
.sp 6p
.RE
.SS Customization
After you run \*Llatsetup\*O, you might want to customize your system's
LAT environment by modifying the following files:
.ML
.LI
\*L/etc/inittab\*O
.IP
Edit the \*L/etc/inittab\*O file to add any LAT entries. For example, you can
add an entry for the LAT/Telnet gateway.  For more information refer to
the guide to
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
and \*Linittab\*O(4).
.LI
\*L/sbin/init.d/lat\*O
.IP
You can modify the startup portion of the shell script (\*L/sbin/init.d/lat\*O)
to customize the host service node. Use \*Llatcp\*O commands to
customize the LAT environment on your system. For example, to customize
the group codes for the host service node, place the appropriate \*Llatcp\*O
command in this shell script.
.IP
For more information refer to the guide to
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
and \*Llatcp\*O(8).
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/sbin/init.d/lat\*O"
Specifies the LAT startup and shutdown script.
.LI "\*L/etc/inittab\*O"
Controls the initialization process.
.LI "\*L/dev/tty\*VWX\*O"
Specifies the LAT terminal devices. (Where \*VW\*O is a number from 0 to
9 and \*VX\*O is an alphanumeric character from 0 to 9, a lowercase a to
z, or an uppercase character A to Z.)
.LI "\*L/etc/rc.config\*O"
Specifies the system configuration file.
.LI "\*L/dev/streams/kinfo\*O"
Specifies the STREAMS pseudodevice.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Linit\*O(8), \*Llat\*O(7), \*Llatcp\*O(8), \*Llattelnet\*O, \*LMAKEDEV\*O(8), \*Lstrsetup\*O(8)
.PP
Files: \*Linittab\*O(4)
.PP
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
