.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: lmf.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/12/17 20:18:51 $
.\"   
.TH lmf 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Llmf\*O \- License Management Facility (LMF)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/lmf\*O [\*L-d \*Vdir\*O ] [ \*Vcommand\*O [ \*Vargument\*O ... ] ]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-d \*Vdir\*O"
Defines the directory containing the License Database file and the history file.
If you do not use the \*L-d\*O flag, the default LMF directory
(\*L/usr/var/adm/lmf\*O) is used.
The \*L-d\*O flag allows you to have more than one License Database on your system.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "lmf utility"
The \*Llmf\*O utility maintains a file of registered software licenses called
the License Database.  The \*Llmf\*O utility creates the License Database
from information on the Product Authorization
Key (PAK) that is supplied with software products.
(The PAK is a valuable proof of purchase and represents your
license from Digital Equipment Corporation to use a software product.)
.PP
The \*Llmf\*O utility also updates the kernel cache.
The kernel cache contains the active license information that is read by
license-checking functions in products that provide full LMF support.
The license-checking functions check that a product has a valid
license before making the product available for use.
.PP
For more information about LMF, see the
\*VGuide to Software License Management\*O.
.PP
LMF contains the following three types of commands:
.ML
.LI
Information and general commands, which you use to monitor your licensing
actions, to monitor the status of the License Database and kernel cache,
and to leave LMF.
.LI
License Database maintenance commands, which you use to modify the contents of
the License Database
.LI
Service commands, which you use to communicate with the kernel cache. These
commands might have an immediate effect on users' access to licensed software.
.LE
.PP
Some commands have the \*Vproduct\*O, \*Vproducer\*O, or \*Vauthorization\*O
arguments.  Replace \*Vproduct\*O, \*Vproducer\*O, and
\*Vauthorization\*O with the information from the corresponding fields on your
PAK. Specify the arguments exactly as they appear on the PAK.
Use the \*Vproducer\*O and \*Vauthorization\*O
arguments when the License Database contains more than one record for a given
\*Vproduct\*O name.
.iX "License Management Facility commands"
.iX "lmf commands"
.SS "Information and General Commands"
.VL 8m
.LI "\*Lexit\*O"
Exits from the \*Llmf\*O utility. You can also enter CTRL/D to leave
the \*Llmf\*O utility.
.LI "\*Lhelp\*O [ \*Vcommand\*O ]"
Displays the syntax of the command specified in the argument list.
If no command is specified, \*Lhelp\*O
lists all the LMF
commands.
.LI "\*Lhistory\*O [ \*Vlength\*O ] [ \*Lfrom\*O \*Vdate\*O ] [ \*Lfor\*O \*Vproduct\*O [ \*Vproducer\*O ] ]"
Lists data from the license management history file.
The history data is displayed with the most recent operations first.
.LI ""
The history file is a record of the License Database maintenance commands
(\*Lamend\*O, \*Lcancel\*O, \*Ldelete\*O, \*Ldisable\*O, \*Lenable\*O,
\*Lissue\*O, \*Lmodify\*O, and \*Lregister\*O) that have been issued on your
system.
LMF also records the creation of a new License Database in the history
file.
.LI ""
For each maintenance command you issue, LMF
records the product identity,
the date and time the command was issued, and the information in the License
Database that was changed.
.LI ""
Replace \*Vlength\*O with one of the following:
.RS
.VL 6m
.LI "\*Lshort\*O"
Displays a one-line summary of the history data for each command issued.
.LI "\*Lfull\*O"
Displays the history data for each command issued and the license as it
appeared before the command was issued.
.LE
.RE
.LI ""
The \*Lfrom \*Vdate\*O argument displays history data for commands
issued after the specified date. You must specify the
\*Vdate\*O argument in this order: day, month, year. You can use most
common formats to specify the date.
You do not need to use a separator between the day and the month or the month
and the year.
For example, the first day of July 1993 could be specified as: 1-jul-1993,
1/7/93, 010793, or 1.july.93.
.LI "\*Llist\*O [ \*Lfull\*O ] [ \*Vsource\*O ] [ \*Lfor\*O \*Vproduct\*O [ \*Vproducer\*O ] ]"
Displays details of the registered products on the system.
If you do not supply any arguments, \*Llist\*O
displays a one-line summary of the PAK data for each product in the License
Database.
.LI ""
The \*Lfull\*O
argument displays the complete license details for each product.
.LI ""
Replace \*Vsource\*O with one of the following:
.VL 6m
.LI "\*Lldb\*O"
Displays a summary for each product in the License Database.
.LI "\*Lcache\*O"
Displays a summary for each product in the kernel cache.
.LI "\*Lall\*O"
Displays a summary for each product in the License Database and
the kernel cache.
.LE
.LE
.SS "License Database Maintenance Commands"
.VL 8m
.LI "\*Lamend\*O \*Vproduct\*O [ \*Vproducer\*O [ \*Vauthorization\*O ] ]
Amends the protected fields on a license.
You must use this command only to register the license data
from a Product Authorization Amendment (PAAM).
The fields you can change have a colon (:) after the field name.
You must make all the changes shown on the PAAM, including entering a new
checksum.
Changes made to fields without a colon after the field name are ignored.
The editor used is the same as that used for the \*Lregister\*O command.
.LI ""
The command does not have an immediate effect on the kernel cache.  Use the
\*Lload\*O command to update the license for the product in the kernel cache.
.LI "\*Lcancel\*O \*Vdate\*O \*Vproduct\*O [ \*Vproducer\*O [ \*Vauthorization\*O ] ]
Cancels the license on the date you specify in the \*Vdate\*O argument.
You can use this command to stop use of a product earlier than the date shown
in the Key Termination Date field on the PAK.
You can change the cancellation date more than once by reissuing the
\*Lcancel\*O command with a different \*Vdate\*O argument.
.LI ""
You must specify the \*Vdate\*O argument in the order day, month, year.
You can use most common formats to specify the date.
You do not need to use a separator between the day and the month or the month
and the year.
For example, the first day of July 1993 could be specified as: 1-jul-1993,
1/7/93, 010793, or 1.july.93.
.LI ""
The \*Lcancel\*O command does not affect the kernel cache. To update the
cancellation date in the kernel cache, use the \*Lload\*O command.
.LI "\*Ldelete\*O \*Vproduct\*O [ \*Vproducer\*O [ \*Vauthorization\*O ] ]"
Deletes a license from the License Database and the kernel cache.
Before you issue this command, be sure you have a record of the license
either in a file on your system or in hardcopy format.
.LI "\*Ldisable\*O \*Vproduct\*O [ \*Vproducer\*O [ \*Vauthorization\*O ] ]
Prevents a license from being loaded into the kernel cache when you issue the
\*Lload\*O or the \*Lreset\*O command or when you start the system.
The license data remains in
the License Database.
.LI "\*Lenable\*O \*Vproduct\*O [ \*Vproducer\*O [ \*Vauthorization\*O ] ]"
Enables a license to be loaded into the kernel cache when you issue the
\*Lload\*O or the \*Lreset\*O command or when you start the system.
LMF automatically enables a license when you register it.
.LI "\*Lissue\*O \*Vfile\*O \*Vproduct\*O [ \*Vproducer\*O [ \*Vauthorization\*O ] ]"
Issues a reconstructed PAK for the product and removes the license from the
kernel cache and the License Database. LMF writes the reconstructed PAK to the file you
specify in the \*Vfile\*O argument.
.LI ""
You can use the reconstructed PAK with the \*Lregister \- < \*Vfile\*O command
to transfer a license from one system to another.
.LI "\*Lmodify\*O \*Vproduct\*O [ \*Vproducer\*O [ \*Vauthorization\*O ] ]"
Modifies the unprotected fields on a license.
You can modify only the Comments field and, if the license has
the MOD_UNITS Key Option, the Number of Units field.
LMF ignores changes to
fields other than Comments or Number of Units.
.LI ""
LMF invokes an editor as defined by the EDITOR environment variable.
If the environment variable is undefined, LMF invokes the \*Lvi\*O
editor.
.LI ""
The \*Lmodify\*O command does not affect the kernel cache. To update the data
in the kernel cache, use the \*Lload\*O command.
.LI "\*Lregister\*O [ \*Vinput\*O ]"
Registers data from a PAK in the License Database.
If you specify no arguments, the command displays a template that
includes the fields that occur on the PAK.
LMF invokes an editor so that you can add the license data to the
appropriate fields. The utility invokes an editor as defined by the
EDITOR environment variable. If the environment variable is undefined,
the utility invokes the \*Lvi\*O editor.
When you leave the editor, LMF scans the completed template to make
sure you entered the license data correctly.
If you entered data incorrectly, LMF displays the appropriate
error message and gives you an opportunity to reenter the editor
and correct any mistakes.
.LI ""
Replace \*Vinput\*O with one of the following:
.RS
.VL 6m
.LI "\*Vfile\*O"
Displays a copy of the file specified and invokes an editor so you can fill
in any additional license details before registering the license data in
the License Database.
.LI "\*L\-\*O"
Registers license data directly from standard input to the License Database.
.LE
.RE
.LI ""
Use the \*Lregister\*O \*Vfile\*O command to register license data from a file
on your system that contains a partially complete PAK.
When you finish editing the license data, LMF scans the file
and gives you the opportunity to correct any mistakes.
.LI ""
Use the \*Lregister \-\*O command to register license data directly from standard
input.
.LE
.SS "Service Commands"
.VL 8m
.LI "\*Lload\*O \*Vusers\*O \*Vproduct\*O [ \*Vproducer\*O [ \*Vauthorization\*O ] ]"
Loads enough license units into the kernel cache to enable use of the product
by the number of users specified.
The number of license units required for the specified number of users
is calculated by LMF. You must register the appropriate number of
units in the License Database before you issue the \*Lload\*O command.
.LI ""
If you specify zero (0) as the \*Vusers\*O argument, all the license
units for the product are loaded into the kernel cache.
If the product is Availability Licensed, you must always specify
zero (0) as the \*Vusers\*O argument.
.LI "\*Lreset\*O"
Copies the license details for all enabled products from the License Database
to the kernel cache.
.LI "\*Lunload\*O \*Vusers\*O \*Vproduct\*O [ \*Vproducer\*O ]"
Unloads enough license units from the kernel cache to reduce the use of the
product by the number of users specified.
The number of license units required for the specified number of users
is calculated by LMF.
After you have issued the command, any existing users of the product are
allowed to finish using it before the new limit is imposed.
.LI ""
If you specify zero (0) as the \*Vusers\*O argument, all the license
units for the product are removed from the kernel cache.
If the product is Availability Licensed, you must always specify
zero (0) as the \*Vusers\*O argument.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
When you use LMF commands you can type them on a single line, for
example:
.oS
# lmf register
.oE
Alternatively, you can enter the \*Llmf\*O
utility and type the commands after the prompt, for example:
.oS
# lmf
lmf> register
.oE
To register a PAK from a file that contains valid license data, issue
the following command:
.oS
# lmf register \- <  PAK_file
.oE
In response to this command, LMF scans the file \*LPAK_file\*O to make
sure its format and data are correct. LMF does not display the contents of
the file or allow you to edit the file.
If the license data is correct, LMF registers the license in the License
Database.
If not, the utility displays the appropriate error message.
.PP
You can abbreviate LMF commands, but you must be sure the abbreviation
is not ambiguous.
For example, you can abbreviate \*Llmf register\*O to
\*Llmf reg\*O but not \*Llmf re\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Command: \*Llmfsetup\*O(8).
.PP
\*VGuide to Software License Management\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
