.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: lmfsetup.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/20 00:54:08 $
.\" 
.TH lmfsetup 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Llmfsetup\*O \- License Management Facility (LMF) registration script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/lmfsetup\*O [ \*Vtemplate\*O ]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "lmfsetup command"
The \*Llmfsetup\*O
script allows you to register data supplied by a Product
Authorization Key (PAK).  The \*Llmfsetup\*O
script prompts you for the data associated with each field on a
PAK. Once you enter all the data, LMF
makes sure you have supplied entries for all mandatory fields and
that the value in the Checksum field validates the license data.
If the data is correct, LMF registers the PAK in the License Database.
If any data is incorrect, LMF displays the appropriate error message
and gives you an opportunity to reenter the data.
.PP
The \*Vtemplate\*O argument allows you to register license data from templates
in \*L/usr/var/adm/lmf\*O. The templates stored in this directory are
created by some software products during their installation process.
If you use one of the
templates, the script prompts you to supply data for any empty fields in
the template.
If the \*Llmfsetup\*O script cannot find the specified template in
\*L/usr/var/adm/lmf\*O,
it searches your current working directory.
.PP
Use the \*Llmfsetup\*O script when you want to register a PAK without
using an editor. Normally, you should use the \*Llmf register\*O command.
The \*Llmf register\*O command displays a template, which includes the fields
on the PAK, and invokes an editor so that you can add the license data to the
appropriate fields.  The \*Llmf register\*O command allows you to correct
errors without having to reenter all the data.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Command: \*Llmf\*O(8).
.PP
\*VGuide to Software License Management\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
