.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: log.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/05/14 20:53:00 $
.\"
.TH log 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Llog\*O \- Records input and output from a program.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/log\*O <\*Vlogfile\*O> <\*Vcommand\*O>
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "log program"
.iX "installation log files"
The \*Llog\*O program runs <\*Vcommand\*O> and logs the input to
and output from <\*Vcommand\*O> to the <\*Vlogfile\*O> file.  Input and output
are logged until
.br
<\*Vcommand\*O> exits, the \*Llog\*O program exits, and
the exit status of <\*Vcommand\*O> is returned.
.PP
The \*Llog\*O program is used by the system installation procedure and the
\*Lit\*O(8) command to create the \*L/var/adm/smlogs/install.log\*O and
\*L/var/adm/smlogs/it.log\*O installation log files.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Because the \*Llog\*O program is used in the installation standalone
environment, program size was the greatest concern in its implementation. 
The \*Llog\*O program does not search for the PATH variable to locate
<\*Vcommand\*O> and error messages are terse.
.PP
The \*Llog\*O program causes <\*Vcommand\*O> to take standard input from
and write standard output and standard error to UNIX pipes.  Some commands
will not be able to operate in this environment; therefore, it is suggested
that you use the \*Lscript\*O(1) command instead.  UNIX shells
will not issue prompts when run from \*Llog\*O unless the shell is started with an explicit interactive switch (\*L\-i\*O for most shells).  For example,
.iS
log foo.tmp /sbin/sh -i
.iE
In the previous example, \*Lfoo.tmp\*O is the name of <\*Vlogfile\*O>.
.PP
The \*Llog\*O program intercepts end-of-file (usually Ctrl/d).
Therefore programs which normally receive end-of-file as an exit command must
exit by some other means.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Llogfile\*O"
The file in which to record the interaction being logged.
.LI "\*Lcommand\*O"
The command to execute.
.LE
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*LLog open error\*O"
The \*Llog\*O program was unable to open <\*Vlogfile\*O>.
.RS
Verify that the directory exists and that ownerships and permissions are set
correctly.
.RE
.LI "\*LExec Error\*O"
The \*Llog\*O program was unable to execute <\*Vcommand\*O>.
.RS
Verify that you specified a full pathname for <\*Vcommand\*O> and that
<\*Vcommand\*O> is an executable file.
.RE
.LI "\*LFork Error\*O"
The \*Llog\*O program was unable to create one of the processes it requires to
log data.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lit\*O(8), \*Lscript\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
