.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: lpc.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.7.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/28 19:46:17 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"lpc8.man
.\"hah_17.07.90
.\"math_19.07.90
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" 
.\" @(#)lpc.8	6.1 (Berkeley) 4/27/85
.\" 
.TH lpc 8
.SH NAME
\*Llpc\*O \- Line printer control program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Llpc\*O [\*Vcommand\*O [\*Vargument\*O ...] ]\*L
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "lpc"
.iX "command" "lpc"
The \*Llpc\*O command is used by the system administrator to control
the operation of the line printer system. For each line printer
configured in the \*L/etc/printcap\*O file, the \*Llpc\*O command may
be used for disabling or enabling a printer; disabling or enabling the
printer spooling queue; rearranging the order of jobs in a spooling
queue or finding the status of printers, their associated spooling
queues, and the printer daemons.
.iX "printer" "control program"
.iX "program" "lpc"
.iX "file" "printcap"
.iX "printcap"
.iX "queue" "printer spooling"
.iX "jobs" "printer queue"
.iX "printer" "status"
.iX "status" "printer"
.PP
Without arguments, \*Llpc\*O prompts for commands from the standard input.
When arguments are supplied, \*Llpc\*O interprets the first argument as a
command and any remaining arguments as command parameters. The standard
input may be redirected so that \*Llpc\*O reads commands from a file.
The following is the list of recognized \*Llpc\*O commands:
.VL
.LI "\*L?\*O [\*Vcommand\*O ...]"
Prints a short description of each command specified in the argument
list or, when no arguments are supplied, a list of the recognized
commands.
.iX "printer" "commands"
.iX "command" "printer"
.LI "\*Lhelp\*O [\*Vcommand\*O ...]"
Prints a short description of each command specified in the argument list
or, when no arguments are supplied, a list of the recognized commands.
.LI "\*Labort\*O [\*Lall\*O | \*Vprinter\*O ...]"
Terminates an active spooling daemon running on the local host, and then
disables printing. This prevents new daemons from being started by \*Llpr\*O
or \*Llp\*O for the specified printers.
.iX "printer" "abort command"
.iX "abort printer spooling"
.iX "daemon" "spooling"
.iX "printer" "disable spooling"
.iX "spooling" "disable"
.iX "command" "printer spool abort"
.LI "\*Lclean\*O [\*Lall\*O | \*V printer\*O ...]"
Removes any temporary files, data files, and control files that cannot
be printed (files that do not form a complete printer job) from the
specified printer queue(s) on the local machine.
.iX "printer" "clean command"
.iX "remove printer spooling files"
.iX "daemon" "spooling"
.iX "spooling" "clean"
.iX "command" "printer spool clean"
.LI "\*Ldisable\*O [\*Lall\*O | \*V printer\*O ...]"
Turns the specified printer queues off. This prevents new printer jobs
from being entered into the queue by \*Llpr\*O or \*Llp\*O.
.iX "printer" "disable command"
.iX "disable printer queue"
.iX "printer queue disable"
.iX "command" "printer queue disable"
.LI "\*Ldown\*O [\*Lall\*O | \*V printer\*O ...] \*V message\*O ..."
Turns the specified printer queue off, disables printing, and puts a
message in the printer status file. The message does not need to be
quoted because remaining arguments are treated the same as \*Lecho\*O.
The \*Ldown\*O command is normally used to take a printer down and let
others know why. (The \*Llpq\*O command indicates that the printer is down
and prints a status message.)
.iX "printer" "spooling queue"
.iX "queue" "printer spooling"
.iX "printer" "status file"
.iX "command" "printer down"
.iX "printer" "down command"
.LI "\*Lenable\*O [\*Lall\*O | \*Vprinter\*O ...]"
Enables spooling on the local queue for the listed printers.
This allows \*Llpr\*O or \*Llp\*O to put new jobs in the spool queue.
.iX "command" "enable printer spooling"
.iX "printer" "enable spooling"
.iX "spooling" "printer enable"
.iX "enable printer spooling"
.LI "\*Lexit\*O"
Exit from \*Llpc\*O.
.iX "command" "printer exit"
.iX "printer" "exit command"
.iX "exit" "printer control program"
.LI "\*Lquit\*O"
Exit from \*Llpc\*O.
.iX "printer" "quit command"
.iX "quit" "printer control program"
.LI "\*Lrestart\*O [\*Lall\*O | \*Vprinter\*O ...]"
Attempts to start a new printer daemon. This is useful when some
abnormal condition causes the daemon to terminate unexpectedly and
leave jobs in the queue.  \*Llpq\*O reports that there is no daemon
present when this condition occurs.  When a daemon is stuck, you
must first kill it and then restart.
.iX "printer" "restart command"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Corrected spelling of daemon.
.iX "restart  printer daemon"
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.iX "daemon" "spooling"
.iX "printer" "restart daemon"
.iX "daemon" "printer" "restart"
.iX "command" "printer daemon restart"
.LI "\*Lstart\*O [\*Lall\*O | \*V printer\*O ...]"
Enables printing and starts a spooling daemon for the listed printers.
.iX "printer" "start command"
.iX "start  printer daemon"
.iX "printer" "start daemon"
.iX "daemon" "printer" "start"
.iX "command" "printer daemon start"
.LI "\*Lstatus\*O [\*Vprinter\*O ...]"
Displays the status of daemons and queues on the local machine. When printer
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Fixed typo per QAR 6104.
name parameters are not supplied, information about all printers is provided.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.iX "printer" "status command"
.iX "status" "printer daemon"
.iX "printer" "daemon status"
.iX "daemon" "printer" "status"
.iX "command" "printer daemon status"
.LI "\*Lstop\*O [\*L all\*O |\*V printer\*O ...]"
Stops a spooling daemon after the current job has completed and disables
printing.
.iX "printer" "stop command"
.iX "stop  printer daemon"
.iX "printer" "stop daemon"
.iX "daemon" "printer" "stop"
.iX "command" "printer daemon stop"
.LI "\*Ltopq\*O \*Vprinter\*O [\*Vjobnum\*O ...] [\*Vuser\*O ...]"
Places jobs in the order listed at the top of the printer queue.
.iX "printer" "topq command"
.iX "command" "printer topq"
.iX "printer" "job queue"
.LI "\*Lup\*O [\*Lall\*O | \*V printer\*O ...]"
Enables all printing and starts a new printer daemon. Cancels the effect of
the \*Ldown\*O command.
.iX "printer" "enable daemon"
.iX "queue" "enable spooling"
.iX "command" "printer up"
.iX "printer" "up command"
.LE
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Incorporating Release Note information
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
.PP
Normally, the \*Lclean\*O subcommand allows you to remove all print
jobs on the system or all jobs on a specified printer.  However,
\*Lclean\*O does not remove the jobs in the spooling queues.
Therefore, you should use the \*Llprm\*O command on a printer-by-printer
basis to remove the jobs you want to eliminate.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The following diagnostic messages are possible.
.VL
.LI "\*C?Ambiguous command\*O"
Abbreviation matches more than one command.
.LI "\*C?Invalid command\*O"
No match was found.
.LI "\*CPrivileged command\*O"
Command may be executed by the superuser only.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/lpc\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LI "\*L/etc/printcap\*O"
Specifies the printer description file.
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/*\*O"
Specifies print spool directories.
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/*/lock\*O"
Specifies the lock file for queue control.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcancel\*O(1), \*Llp\*O(1),
\*Llpd\*O(8),
\*Llpr\*O(1), \*Llpq\*O(1), \*Llprm\*O(1), \*Llpstat\*O(1).
.PP
Files: \*Lprintcap(4)\*O.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
