.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: lpd.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/06 14:29:10 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
...\" hah_20.07.90
...\" ma_24.07.90
...\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
...\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
...\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
...\"
...\"	@(#)lpd.8	6.3 (Berkeley) 12/8/85
...\"
.TH lpd 8
.SH NAME
.PP
lpd \- line printer daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/lbin/lpd\*O [\*L-l\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L-l\*O"
Causes the \*Llpd\*O daemon to log valid requests received from the network.
This  flag is useful for debugging.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "lpd command"
.iX "printer daemon"
.iX "daemon" "printer"
.iX "printer daemon" "debugging"
.iX "debugging" "printer daemon"
.iX "daemon" "printer debugging"
The \*Llpd\*O line printer daemon (spool area handler)
normally is invoked at boot time.  The daemon makes a single pass through
the \*Lprintcap\*O(4) file to determine the existing printers and to
print all files that were not printed before the system shut down.
The daemon uses
system calls \*Llisten\*O(2) and \*Laccept\*O(2) to receive requests to
print files in the queue, to transfer files to the spooling area, and to
display the queue or remove jobs from the queue.  In each case, the daemon
forks a child process
to handle the request so that the parent process can continue to listen
for more requests.  The Internet port number used to interact with other
processes is identified with the \*Lgetservbyname\*O(3) system call and is
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Changed /etc/devices to /etc/services because of QAR 8018.
specified in the \*L/etc/services\*O file by its printer service record entry.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.iX "file" "printcap"
.iX "printcap"
.iX "daemon" "printer"
.iX "printer daemon"
.iX "command" "listen"
.iX "command" "accept"
.iX "listen"
.iX "accept"
.iX "files" "printing"
.iX "queues" "printing"
.iX "printing" "queues"
.iX "file" "printer service"
.iX "printer" "service file"
.PP
Access control is provided by the following means:
.PP
All requests must originate from one of the machines listed in the
\*L/etc/hosts.equiv\*O or \*L/etc/hosts.lpd\*O file.
.iX "file" "hosts.equiv"
.iX "file" "hosts.lpd"
.iX "hosts.equiv file"
.iX "hosts.lpd file"
.P
When an \*Lrs\*O capability, which restricts remote users to those
with local accounts, is specified in the \*L/etc/printcap\*O file for
the printer being accessed, an \*Llpr\*O or \*Llp\*O request is
honored only for those users having accounts on the same machine as
the printer.
.iX "printer" "remote service"
.iX "remote" "printer service"
.iX "command" "lpr"
.iX "command" "lp"
.PP
The \*Lminfree\*O ASCII file
in each spool directory contains the number of disk blocks to leave free
so that the line printer queue will not completely fill the disk.
.iX "file" "minfree"
.iX "minfree"
.iX "directory" "spool"
.iX "spool" "directory"
.iX "printer" "spool directory"
.iX "disk" "printer spool free blocks"
.iX "blocks" "free printer spool"
.PP
The \*Llock\*O file in each \*L/usr/spool\*O subdirectory is used to
prevent more than one active \*Llpd\*O daemon and to store information
about the daemon process for other printer spooling commands.
.iX "directory" "usr/spool"
.iX "usr/spool"
.iX "printer" "spooling commands"
.PP
After the \*Llpd\*O daemon has successfully set the lock in the
\*Llock\*O file, it scans the \*L/usr/spool\*O subdirectory for files
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Fixed typo per QAR 6104.
beginning with the characters \*Ccf\*O.  Records in each of the
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
\*Ccf\*O files specify files to be printed or specify one or more
non-printing actions to be performed.  Each such record begins with a
key character that specifies what to do with the remainder of the
line.  In the following table, the columns list the beginning key
character, the key-character name, and its purpose:
.iX "printer" "lock file"
.iX "file" "printer lock"
.iX "process" "printer daemon control"
.iX "control" "printer daemon"
.VL
.LI "\*LH\*O  \*LHostname\*O"
Name of the machine where the \*Llpr\*O daemon or the \*Llp\*O command
was invoked.
.LI "\*LP\*O  \*LPerson\*O"
Login name of the person who invoked the \*Llpr\*O or \*Llp\*O
commands.  This record is used to verify ownership by the \*Llprm\*O
or \*Lcancel\*O commands.
.LI "\*LJ\*O  \*LJob Name\*O"
String to be used for the job name on the burst page.
.LI "\*LC\*O  \*LClassification\*O"
String to be used for the classification line on the burst page.
.LI "\*LL\*O  \*LLiteral\*O"
The record line provides identification information from the
\*Letc/passwd\*O file and initiates banner page printing.
.LI "\*LI\*O  \*LIndentation\*O"
The number of character spaces to indent the output (spacing is from the
ASCII character set).
.LI "\*LM\*O  \*LNotify\*O"
Sends mail to the specified user when the current print job completes.
.\"
.\" .LI "\*LV\*O \*LOverride Volume Labels\*O"
.\" 
.LI "\*L1\*O  \*LTroff Font R\*O"
Name of another font file to use in place of the default font file.
.LI "\*L2\*O  \*LTroff Font I\*O"
Name of another font file to use in place of the default font file.
.LI "\*L3\*O  \*LTroff Font B\*O"
Name of another font file to use in place of the default font file.
.LI "\*L4\*O  \*LTroff Font S\*O"
Name of another font file to use in place of the default font file.
.LI "\*LW\*O  \*LWidth\*O"
Changes the page width (in characters) used by the \*Lpr\*O command and by
text filters.
.LI "\*L<\*O  \*LInput tray\*O"
Selects the input tray that supplies paper for the print job.
.LI "\*L>\*O  \*LOutput tray\*O"
Selects the output tray where the printed paper is deposited.
.LI "\*LO\*O  \*LOrientation\*O"
Specifies the orientation of the printed output on the page.
.LI "\*LK\*O  \*LSides\*O"
Specifies whether the job should be printed on both sides of the physical
sheet and whether the pages should be rotated by 180 degrees.
.\" 
.\" .LI "\*LS\*O "
.\" 
.LI "\*LT\*O  \*LTitle\*O"
String to be used as the title for the \*Lpr\*O command.
.LI "\*Lf\*O  \*LFormatted File\*O"
Name of an already formatted file to print.
.LI "\*Lp\*O  \*LFile Name\*O"
Name of a file to print using the \*Lpr\*O command as a filter.
.LI "\*Ll\*O  \*LFormatted File\*O"
Similar to \*Lf\*O, but passes control characters and does not make
page breaks.
.LI "\*Lt\*O  \*LTroff File\*O"
The file contains \*Ltroff\*O output (\*Lcat\*O phototypesetter commands).
.LI "\*Ln\*O  \*LDitroff File\*O"
The file contains DVI (device-independent) troff output.
.LI "\*Ld\*O  \*LDVI File\*O"
The file contains \*LTex\*O(l) output (DVI format from Stanford).
.\" .LI "\*Lg\*O  \*LGraph File\*O"
.\" The file contains data produced by the \*Lplot\*O(3) command.
.LI "\*Lv\*O  \*LRaster Image\*O"
The file contains a raster image.
.LI "\*Lc\*O  \*LCifplot File\*O"
The file contains data produced by the \*Lcifplot\*O command.
.LI "\*Lr\*O  \*LFortran\*O"
The file contains text data with Fortran carriage control characters.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.LI "\*Lx\*O  \*LUnfiltered output\*O"
Do not interpret any control characters in the file.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "\*LU\*O  \*LUnlink\*O"
Name of file to remove on completion of printing.
.LI "\*LN\*O  \*LFilename\*O"
The name of the file undergoing printing, or when blank, for the
standard input (when the \*Llpr\*O or \*Llp\*O command is
invoked in a pipeline or when the command is invoked from the standard
input).
.LE
.PP
Whenever a file cannot be opened for printing, a message is logged via
the \*Lsyslog\*O(3) subroutine using the \*LLOG_LPR\*O facility.  In this
case, the \*Llpd\*O daemon tries to reopen a file, which it expects
to be referenced by a correct pathname, up to 20 times.  If a file cannot be
opened after 20 tries, \*Llpd\*O goes to the next file.
.iX "printing" "opening file"
.iX "opening" "file for printing"
.iX "error" "opening file"
.PP
The \*L lpd\*O daemon uses the \*Lflock\*O(2) system call to provide
exclusive access to the lock file and to prevent multiple daemons from
being simultaneously activated.  If the daemon is killed or
dies unexpectedly, the lock file does not have to be removed.
.iX "printer" "lock file"
.iX "file" "printer lock"
.iX "lock file" "printer"
.PP
The 2-line ASCII \*L/usr/spool/lock\*O file
contains two lines.  The first line specifies the process ID
of the daemon, and the second line specifies the control file name of
the job currently undergoing printing.  The second line is updated to
reflect the current status of the \*Llpd\*O daemon for commands
\*Llpq\*O, \*Llprm\*O, \*Lcancel\*O, and \*Llpstat\*O.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Changed sbin to lbin per QAR 8018.
.LI "\*L/usr/lbin/lpd\*O"
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
Specifies the command path.
.LI "\*L/etc/printcap\*O"
Printer description file.
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/*\*O"
Spool directories.  The location of spool directories is a convention,
but not necessary (see the \*L/etc/printcap\*O file).
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/*/minfree\*O"
Minimum free disk space to leave.
.LI "\*L/dev/lp*\*O"
Line printer devices.
.LI "\*L/dev/printer\*O"
Socket for local requests.
.LI "\*L/etc/hosts.equiv\*O"
Lists machine names allowed access to a printer.
.LI "\*L/etc/hosts.lpd\*O"
Lists machine names allowed access to a printer, but which are not
under same administrative control.
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcancel\*O(1), \*Llp\*O(1), \*Llpc\*O(8), \*Lpac\*O(8),
\*Llpr\*O(1), \*Llpq\*O(1), \*Llpstat\*O(1), \*Llprm\*O(1)
.PP
Calls:  \*Lsyslog\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
