.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: lprsetup.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/19 13:56:07 $
.\" 
.\"  For tin
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)lprsetup.8	2.4	8/20/87
.TH lprsetup 8
.SH NAME
.PP
lprsetup \- printer spooler set up program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /usr/sbin/lprsetup
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "lprsetup command"
.iX "line printer" "setting up"
The \*Llprsetup\*O command provides an interactive easy-to-use facility for
administrating the line printers on your system.
The \*Llprsetup\*O program contains on-line help
and default answers to questions
about adding, deleting, or changing the characteristics
of any of the line printers on your system.
Whenever a question is asked, the default selection is given in
brackets \[ \] .
You can press Return in response to the question to accept
the default, or enter an alternate value for the given parameter.
.PP
You can obtain help information at any prompt by entering a
question mark (?).  After the help information is displayed, you
are reprompted.
.PP
The program knows about all of the possible symbols
in the \*L/etc/printcap\*O file. See \*Lprintcap\*O(4) for a current list.
After you have entered a printer specification, and have verified
that it is correct, \*Llprsetup\*O then creates the spooling directory,
links the output filter, and creates an \*L/etc/printcap\*O
entry for the new printer.
.PP
If the printer is connected to your system, you must specify the
printer device name which is in the
.B lp
printcap entry.
.PP
If \*Llp\*O is set to \*L/dev/tty\*Vnn\*O, choose the default setting \*Ldev\*O
when you see the following prompt:
.oS
printer connection type 'ct'
.oE
If you choose \*Ldev\*O, you are prompted for the baud rate, \*Lbr\*O.  The
default is the recommended baud rate for the selected printer.
If you choose \*Ldev\*O, you are prompted for the baud rate, \*Lbr\*O.
The default is the recommended baud rate for the printer.
.PP
If \*Llp\*O is set to another device, for example \*L/dev/lp0\*O
the \*Llprsetup\*O program assumes that
you are setting up a printer with a parallel port, for
example, \*Llg02\*O.
It does not prompt you for device type information, and serial port
specific entries are not put into the \*L/etc/printcap\*O entry.
.PP
If the printer is remote, that is, if it is connected to a remote machine,
you must set the line printer device to NULL (\*Llp=:\*O) and provide
the following information items:
.ML
.LI
Printer synonyms
.LI
Name of the remote machine
.LI
Name of the remote printer
.LI
Spooling directory on the local machine
.LE
.PP
If the printer is connected to a LAT, you must specify \*LLAT\*O when
prompted for the printer connection type.  It is important to enter
\*LLAT\*O in all uppercase letters.  (The connection will not be made
if you enter \*Llat\*O for the printer connection type.)
After you specify \*LLAT\*O, the system prompts you for the baud rate
(\*Lbr\*O).  The default is the recommended baud rate for the
selected printer.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lprintcap\*O(4), \*Llatcp\*O(8), \*LMAKEDEV\*O(8)
.PP
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
.br
\*ESystem Administration\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
