.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: lptest.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 11:34:13 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" hah_20.07.90
.\" ma_24.07.90
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" 
.\"	@(#)lptest.1	6.1 (Berkeley) 4/29/85
.\" 
.TH lptest 8
.SH NAME
\*Llptest\*O \- Generates the line printer ripple test pattern
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*Llptest\*O [\*Vlength\*O [\*Vcount\*O]]\*L
.sE 
.SH "FLAGS"
.VL
.LI "\*Vlength\*O"
Specifies the output line length when the 79-character default line length
is inappropriate.
.LI "\*Vcount\*O"
Specifies the number of output lines to be generated when the default
200-line length is inappropriate.  When \*Vcount\*O is specified,
\*Vlength\*O must also be specified.
.LE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
The \*Llptest\*O command writes a traditional \*Vripple test\*O
pattern to the standard output. In 96 lines, a pattern containing all
96 printable ASCII characters in each column position of the line is
printed. In the pattern, each printed character is displaced rightward
one character-column on each successive line. Originally created to
test printers, the ripple test pattern is also useful for testing
terminals, driving terminal ports during debugging, and for any other
diagnostic task where a quick output of randomized data is needed.
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/lptest\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands:  \*Llp\*O(1), \*Llpr\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
