.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: lvchange.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:27:27 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.TH lvchange 8
.SH NAME
\*Llvchange\*O \- Changes the characteristics of a logical volume.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/lvchange\*O [\*L\-a\*O \*VAvailability\*O] [\*L\-d\*O \*VSchedule\*O] [\*L\-p\*O \*VPermission\*O] [\*L\-r\*O \*VRelocate\*O] [\*L\-s \*VStrict\*O] [\*L\-v\*O \*VVerify\*O] \*VLogicalVolumePath\*O
.\" Begin Digital-specific CORRECTION
.\" Added this note in response to QAR 10716.
.PP
NOTE:  Although the flags are shown as optional, you must specify at
least one.
.\" End Digital-specific CORRECTION
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "lvchange command"
The \*Llvchange\*O command changes the characteristics of a logical volume.
You include the optional command flags and parameters on
the command line to specify the type and extent of change.
Each current characteristic
for a logical volume remains in effect until you explicitly change it with
the corresponding flag.
All flags except the
\*L\-s\*O flag take effect immediately. The change you make with the
\*L\-s\*O flag takes effect only when new extents are allocated using the
\*Llvextend\*O command. The
\*VLogicalVolumePath\*O parameter must be a logical volume name.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
You must specify at least one flag with the \*Llvchange\*O command.
.VL
.LI "\*L\-a \*VAvailability\*O"
Sets the availability of the logical volume. The
\*VAvailability \*O parameter is represented by one of the following:
.VL
.LI "\*Ly\*O"
Makes a logical volume available; that is,
an open of the logical volume will succeed.
.LI "\*Ln\*O"
Makes a logical volume temporarily unavailable; that is,
an open of the logical volume will fail.
.LE
.LI "\*L\-d \*VSchedule\*O"
Sets the scheduling policy when
a logical extent with more than one mirror is written.  The
\*VSchedule \*O parameter is represented by one of the following:
.VL
.LI "\*Lp\*O"
Establishes a parallel scheduling policy.
.LI "\*Ls\*O"
Establishes a sequential scheduling policy.
Use this value with care because, in most cases, it leads
to performance loss.
.LE
.LI "\*L\-p \*VPermission\*O"
Sets the access permission to read-write or read-only.  The
\*VPermission\*O parameter is represented by one of the following:
.VL
.LI "\*Lw\*O"
Sets the access permission to read-write.
.LI "\*Lr\*O"
Sets the access permission to read-only.
.LE
.LI "\*L\-r \*VRelocate\*O"
Sets the bad block relocation policy.  The
\*VRelocate\*O parameter is represented by one of the following:
.VL
.LI "\*Ly\*O"
Causes bad block relocation to occur.
.LI "\*Ln\*O"
Prevents bad block relocation from occurring.
.LE
.LI "\*L\-s \*VStrict\*O"
Determines
the strict allocation policy. Mirrors of a logical extent can be
allocated to share or not to share the same physical
volume. This flag only make sense when the physical volumes (of the
volume group that owns the logical volume to be changed) reside on
different physical disks. The
\*VStrict\*O parameter is represented by one of the following:
.VL
.LI "\*Ly\*O"
Sets a strict allocation policy; mirrors of a logical
extent can not share the same physical volume.
.LI "\*Ln\*O"
Does not set a strict allocation policy; mirrors
of a logical extent can share the same physical volume.
.LE
.LI "\*L\-v \*VVerify\*O"
Sets the write-verify state for the logical volume.  The
\*VVerify \*O parameter is represented by one of the following:
.VL
.LI "\*Ly\*O"
Causes all writes to the logical volume to be verified
with a follow up read.
.LI "\*Ln\*O"
Prevents all writes to the logical volume from being verified
with a follow up read.
.LE
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To change the permission of logical volume lv03, enter:
.iS
lvchange \-p r  /dev/vg01/lv03
.iE
Logical volume lv03 now has read-only permission.
.LI
To change the allocation policy of logical
volume lv07, enter:
.iS
lvchange \-s n  /dev/vg01/lv07
.iE
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/lvchange\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Llvcreate\*O(8), \*Llvdisplay\*O(8), \*Llvextend\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
