.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: lvcreate.8,v $ $Revision: 3.6.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:28:45 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.TH lvcreate 8
.SH NAME
\*Llvcreate\*O \- Creates a logical volume in a volume group
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*L/usr/sbin/lvcreate\*O [\*L\-d\*O \*VSchedule\*O] [\*L\-l\*O \*VLogicalExtentsNumber\*O] [\*L\-m\*O \*VMirrorCopies\*O] [\*L\-n\*O \*VLogicalVolumeName\*O] [L\*L\-p\*O \*VPermission\*O] [\*L\-r\*O \*VRelocate\*O] [\*L\-s\*O \*VStrict\*O] [\*L\-v\*O \*VVerify\*O] \*VVolumeGroupName\*O
.in -.5i
.sE 
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "lvcreate command"
.PP 
The
\*Llvcreate\*O command creates a new logical volume within the volume group
represented by the
\*VVolumeGroupName\*O parameter.
.PP 
 If
\*VLogicalVolumeName\*O is provided by the user, the new logical volume is created with the
given name.  If
\*VLogicalVolumeName\*O is not provided, a system generated name is provided.
The system
generated name is of the form \*Llvol\*O\*V#\*O,
where # is the minor number of the new logical
volume.
.PP 
The name of the new logical volume is displayed.
.PP 
The default settings provide the most commonly used characteristics,
but use flags to tailor the logical
volume to the requirements of your system.  Once a logical volume is
created, its characteristics can be changed with the
\*Llvchange\*O,
\*Llvextend\*O and
\*Llvreduce\*O commands.
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L\-d \*VSchedule\*O"
Sets the scheduling policy when one logical extent with more than one
mirror is written.
\*VSchedule\*O is represented by one of the following:
.VL
.LI "\*Lp\*O"
Establishes a parallel scheduling policy.  (The default.)
.LI "\*Ls\*O"
Establishes a sequential scheduling policy.
This value should be used with care since, in most cases, it will
lead to performance loss.
.LE
.LI "\*L\-l \*VLogicalExtentsNumber\*O"
Allocates
\*VLogicalExtentsNumber\*O number of logical extents to the
\*VLogicalVolumePath\*O.
\*VLogicalExtentsNumber \*O must be a number between
\*L1\*O and
\*L65535, \*O which is the implementation limit.
.PP
The default for \*VLogicalExtentsNumber\*O is \*L0\*O
.LI "\*L\-m \*VMirrorCopies\*O"
Sets the number of physical extents allocated for each logical extent.
.PP
\*VMirrorCopies\*O (that is, mirrors) can be a value of either
\*L1 \*O or
\*L2\*O; this means that,
beyond the original copy, one or two mirror copies will contain the
same data as the original one.
.PP
The default for \*VMirrorCopies\*O is \*L0\*O.
.LI "\*L\-n \*VLogicalVolumeName\*O"
Specifies that the new logical volume must be created with the name
\*VLogicalVolumeName\*O supplied by you.  
This name must be a simple file name and not a path name.
.LI "\*L\-p \*VPermission\*O"
Sets the access permission to read-write or read-only.
\*VPermission \*Ois represented by one of the following:
.VL
.LI "\*Lw\*O"
Sets the access permission to read-write.  (The default.)
.LI "\*Lr\*O"
Sets the access permission to read-only
.LE  
.LI "\*L\-r \*VRelocate\*O"
Sets the bad block relocation
policy.  Relocation is represented by one of the following:
.VL
.LI "\*Ly\*O"
Causes bad block relocation to occur.  (The default.)
.LI "\*Ln\*O"
Prevents bad block relocation from occurring.
.LE  
.LI "\*L\-s \*VStrict\*O"
Determines the strict allocation policy.  Mirror copies of a logical extent
can be allocated to share or not to share the same physical volume.  This
flag only makes sense when the physical volumes (of the volume group that
owns the logical volume to be created) reside on different physical disks.
The \*VStrict\*O parameter is represented by one of the following:
.VL
.LI "\*Ly\*O"
Sets a strict allocation policy; mirrors for a logical
extent cannot share the same physical volume.  (The default.)
.LI "\*Ln\*O"
Does not set a strict allocation policy; mirrors
for a logical extent can share the same physical volume.
.LE  
.LI "\*L\-v \*VVerify\*O"
Sets the write-verify state for the logical volume.  The
\*VVerify\*O parameter is represented by one of the following:
.VL
.LI "\*Ly\*O"
Causes the verification of all write operations
to the logical volume.
.LI "\*Ln\*O"
Prevents the verification of all write operations
to the logical volume.  (The default.)
.LE  
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.AL
.LI
To make a logical volume in volume group vg02, enter:
.iS
lvcreate /dev/vg02
.iE
.LI
To make a logical volume in volume group vg03
with non-strict allocation policy, enter:
.iS
lvcreate \-s n /dev/vg03
.iE
A new logical volume in volume group vg03 is created
with non-strict allocation policy.
.LE 
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/lvcreate\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands:  \*Llvchange\*O(8), \*Llvextend\*O(8), \*Llvreduce\*O(8),
\*Lpvchange\*O(8)
.iX "lvcreate command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
