.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: lvdisplay.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:30:12 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.TH lvdisplay 8
.SH NAME
\*Llvdisplay\*O \- Displays information about logical volumes
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/usr/sbin/lvdisplay\*O [\*L\-v\*O] \*VLogicalVolumePath\*O ...
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "lvdisplay command"
.PP 
The
\*Llvdisplay\*O command displays the characteristics and status of each
logical volume specified by the
\*VLogicalVolumePath\*O parameter.  If you use the
\*L\-v\*O (verbose) option, the program displays physical volume 
(PV) distribution
information, and map information about the physical extents
that correspond to the logical extents of the logical volume(s).
.PP 
If you enter the
\*Llvdisplay\*O command without any flags, the program displays 
information about
the following characteristics:
.VL
.LI "\*LLV Name\*O:"
The name of the logical volume
.LI "\*LVG Name\*O:"
The name of the volume group
.LI "\*LLV Permission\*O:"
The access permission: read-only or read-write
.LI "\*LLV Status\*O:"
The state of the logical volume:  available/stale,  available/syncd, or
unavailable
.PP
Available/stale indicates that the logical volume is available 
but contains physical
extents that are not current. Available/syncd indicates that the logical
volume is available and synchronized. Unavailable indicates that the logical
volume is not available for use.
.LI "\*LWrite verify\*O:"
The write verify state of the logical volume: on or off
.LI "\*LMirror Copies\*O:"
The number of physical extents allocated for each logical
extent
.LI "\*LSchedule\*O:"
The sequential or parallel scheduling policy
.LI "\*L Current LE\*O:"
The number of logical extents currently in the logical
volume
.LI "\*LAllocated PE\*O:"
The number of physical extents allocated to the logical
volume
.LI "\*LBad Blocks\*O:"
The bad block relocation policy
.LI "\*LAllocation\*O:"
The current allocation state: strict or non-strict
A strict allocation specifies that
mirror copies for a logical extent are not allocated on the same physical
volume.  A non-strict allocation specifies
that physical extents that belong to the same logical extent can be
allocated on the same physical volume.  If the allocation does not
meet the criteria for strict, it is considered to be non-strict.
.LE 
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L\-v\*O"
Lists the map and the following
additional information about the distribution of the
logical volume across the physical volumes of the volume group.
.PP
\*LDistribution of logical volume\*O: lists the distribution of the logical 
volume \*VLogicalVolumePath\*O within the volume group:
.VL
.LI "\*LPV Name\*O:"
The name of the physical volume to which the logical extents
are allocated
.LI "\*LLE on PV\*O:"
The number of logical extents that are allocated on the
physical volume
.LI "\*LPE on PV\*O:"
The number of physical extents that are allocated on the
physical volume
.LE
.PP
\*LLogical extents\*O: displays the following information for each 
logical extent:
.VL
.LI "\*LLE\*O:"
The logical extent number
.LI "\*LPV1\*O:"
The physical volume name that corresponds to the location of
the first physical extent of the logical extent
.LI "\*LPE1\*O:"
The first physical extent number allocated to the logical
extent
.LI "\*LStatus 1\*O:"
The status of the first physical extent: stale or current
.LI "\*LPV2\*O:"
The physical volume name that corresponds to the location of
the second physical extent (first copy) of the logical extent
.LI "\*LPE2\*O:"
The second physical extent number allocated to the logical
extent
.LI "\*LStatus 2\*O:"
The status of the second physical extent: stale or current
.LI "\*LPV3\*O:"
The physical volume name that corresponds to the location of
the third physical extent (second copy) of the logical extent
.LI "\*LPE3\*O:"
The third physical extent number allocated to the logical
extent
.LI "\*LStatus 3\*O:"
The status of the third physical extent: stale or current
.LE
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.AL
.LI
To display information about the logical volume, lv03, enter:
.iS
lvdisplay /dev/vg01/lv03
\*O
.iE
The program displays information about lv03, its logical and
physical extents, and the volume group to which it belongs.
.LI
To display all the available information about the logical volume,
lv03, enter:
.iS
lvdisplay \-v /dev/vg01/lv03
.iE
The program displays the characteristics, status and distribution map of lv03.
.LE 
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/lvdisplay\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands:  \*Llvchange\*O(8),
\*Llvcreate\*O(8),
\*Llvextend\*O(8),
\*Llvreduce\*O(8),
\*Lpvdisplay\*O(8),
\*Lvgdisplay\*O(8)
.iX "lvdisplay command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
