.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: lvextend.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:31:22 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.TH lvextend 8
.SH NAME
\*Llvextend\*O \- Increases the number of physical extents allocated to a logical volume
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*L/usr/sbin/lvextend\*O \*L\-l\*O \*VLogicalExtentsNumber\*O | \*L\-m\*O \*VMirrorCopies\*O \*VLogicalVolumePath\*O [\*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O ...]
.in -.5i
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "lvextend command"
.PP 
The
\*Llvextend\*O command changes either the number of logical extents
allocated to a logical volume specified with the
\*VLogicalVolumePath\*O parameter or the number of physical extents
allocated to each logical extent in the logical volume. The change
is determined according to which command flags you use.
.\" .PP 
.\" To limit the allocation to specific
.\" physical volumes, use the names of one or more physical volumes in
.\" the
.\" \*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O parameter; otherwise, all of the physical
.\" volumes in a volume group are available for allocating new physical
.\" extents.
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L\-l \*VLogicalExtentsNumber\*O"
Increases the number of logical extents allocated to the 
\*VLogicalVolumePath\*O.  \*VLogicalExtentsNumber\*O must 
be greater than the number of logical extents previously allocated
to \*VLogicalVolumePath\*O and less than
\*L65535\*O which is the implementation limit.
.PP
\*VLogicalExtentsNumber \*Orepresents the new total number of logical extents
that can be allocated to
\*VLogicalVolumePath.\*O  The change is accomplished by allocating
the number of additional logical extents represented by the
difference between
\*VLogicalExtentsNumber\*O and the previous number of extents.
.PP
The mirror policy and mirror copies number for the new logical extents
is the same as previously established for the
\*VLogicalVolumePath.\*O
.PP
Either this option or the
\*L\-m\*O option must be supplied.
.LI "\*L\-m \*VMirrorCopies\*O"
Sets the number of physical extents allocated for each logical extent.
.PP
\*VMirrorCopies \*O(that is, mirrors) can be either 1 or 2. This means that
beyond the original copy, one or two mirror copies will contain the
same data as the original copy.  \*VMirrorCopies \*O must be greater than the
current number of mirrors for the logical volume.
.PP
The data in the new copies are synchronized. The synchronization
process can be time consuming, depending on the hardware
characteristics and the amount of data.
If the allocation policy for the logical volume is strict and the
specified physical volume already contains logical extents of the
logical volume, the request is rejected.
.PP
Either this option or the \*L\-l\*O option must be supplied.
.LE 
.SH EXAMPLES
.AL
.LI
To increase the number of the logical extents of logical volume lv03
up to one hundred, enter:
.iS
lvextend \-l  100  /dev/vg01/lv03
.iE
.LI
To get two mirrors (that is, three copies) for each logical extent
of logical volume lv05, enter:
.iS
lvextend \-m  2   /dev/vg01/lv05
.iE
Each logical extent of logical volume lv05 is now doubly mirrored.
.LE 
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/lvextend\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands:  \*Llvcreate\*O(8),
\*Llvdisplay\*O(8),
\*Llvreduce\*O(8),
\*Lpvchange\*O(8),
\*Lpvdisplay\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
