.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: lvreduce.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:32:32 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.TH lvreduce 8
.SH NAME
\*Llvreduce\*O \- Decreases the number of physical extents allocated to a logical volume
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/usr/sbin/lvreduce\*O \*L\-m\*O \*VMirrorCopies\*O | \*L\-l\*O \*VLogicalExtentsNumber\*O [\*L\-f\*O] \*VLogicalVolumePath\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "lvreduce command"
.PP 
The
\*Llvreduce\*O command changes either the number of logical extents
allocated to a logical volume specified with the
\*VLogicalVolumePath\*O parameter or the number of physical extents
allocated to each logical extent in the logical volume.  The change is
determined according to which command flags you use.
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L\-f\*O"
Forces the reduction of the number of logical extents
without first requesting confirmation.
This option can be used only if the
\*L\-l\*O flag has been used.
.LI "\*L\-m \*VMirrorCopies\*O"
Sets the number of physical extents allocated for each logical extent.
.PP
\*VMirrorCopies \*O(that is, mirrors) can be either 0 or 1.  
This means that beyond the
original copy, no other (0) or one (1) mirror copy will contain the
same data as the original copy.
.PP
\*VMirrorCopies \*O must be less than the current number of mirrors for 
the logical volume.  Either this option or the
\*L\-l\*O option must be supplied.
.LI "\*L\-l \*VLogicalExtentsNumber\*O"
Decreases the number of logical extents allocated to the
\*VLogicalVolumePath\*O.  \*VLogicalExtentsNumber\*O must be less 
than the number of logical extents previously allocated
to \*VLogicalVolumePath.\*O
.PP
\*VLogicalExtentsNumber \*Orepresents the new total number of logical 
extents within
\*VLogicalVolumePath.\*O The change is accomplished by deallocating
the number of logical extents represented by the
difference between the previous number of extents and
\*VLogicalExtentsNumber.\*O
.PP
The
\*Llvreduce\*O command asks for confirmation if you do not use the
\*L\-f\*O flag.
.PP
You must use either this option (\*L\-l\*O) or the
\*L\-m\*O option.
.LE 
.SH EXAMPLES
.AL
.LI
To decrease the number of the logical extents of logical volume lv03
to one hundred, enter:
.iS
lvreduce \-l  100  /dev/vg01/lv03
.iE
.LI
To get one mirror (that is, two copies) for each logical extent
of logical volume lv05, enter:
.iS
lvreduce \-m  1  /dev/vg01/lv05
.iE
Each logical extent of logical volume lv05 is now singly mirrored.
.LE 
.SH CAUTIONS
.PP 
The Logical Volume Manager does not store any information
about which physical extents contain useful data; therefore, using the
\*L\-l\*O option might lead to the loss of useful data.
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/lvreduce\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands:  \*Llvcreate\*O(8),
\*Llvdisplay\*O(8),
\*Llvextend\*O(8),
\*Lpvchange\*O(8),
\*Lpvdisplay\*O(8)
.iX "lvreduce command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
