.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: lvremove.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:33:47 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.TH lvremove 8
.SH NAME
\*Llvremove\*O \- Removes one or more logical volumes from a volume group
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/usr/sbin/lvremove\*O [\*L\-f\*O] \*VLogicalVolumePath\*O ...\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "lvremove command"
.PP 
The \*Llvremove\*O command removes the logical volume(s) specified by the
\*VLogicalVolumePath\*O parameter. You must close the logical volume(s)
before removing them.
For example, if the logical volume contains a file system, you must
unmount the file system.
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L\-f\*O"
Specifies that no user confirmation is required
.LE 
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To remove logical volume lv05 without requiring user
confirmation, enter:
.iS
lvremove \-f /dev/vg01/lv05
.iE
The program removes the logical volume from the volume group.
.SH CAUTIONS
.PP 
This command destroys all data in the logical volume(s).
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/lvremove\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands:  \*Llvchange\*O(8),
\*Lumount\*O(8)
.iX "lvremove command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
