.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mailstats.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 11:35:58 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
...\de rS
.\"nr !! 0 1
.\" 
.\"de rI
.\"fi
.\"sp 1
.\"ti 0.5i
.\"\\n+(!!\\c
.\" 
.\"'br
.TH mailstats 8
.SH NAME
\*Lmailstats\*O \- Displays statistics about mail traffic
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lmailstats\*O [\*L-S\*O \*Vfile\*O]
.sE 
.SH "FLAGS"
.VL
.LI "\*L-S\*O \*Vfile\*O"
Use \*Vfile\*O as the input statistics file instead of 
\*L/var/adm/sendmail/sendmail.st\*O
.LE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This command reads the information in the
\*L/var/adm/sendmail/sendmail.st\*O file (or in the file specified with
the \*L-S\*O flag), formats it, and writes it to standard output.
Note also that you can change the location of the \*Lsendmail.st\*O file by
editing its pathname in the \*Lsendmail.cf\*O file.
.SH EXAMPLES
The format of
the information is shown in the following example, in which the first
field (\*LM\*O) contains a number that indicates the position
of that mailer in the \*Lsendmail.cf\*O file, starting at 0 (zero).
For example, the first mailer in the \*Lsendmail.cf\*O file corresponds to
the number 0 in the \*Lmailstats\*O display, the second mailer
corresponds to the number 1, and so on.
.oS
Statistics from Wed Aug 29 16:42:25 1990
M      msgsfr    bytes_from    msgsto    bytes_to
1        50          77K          1        3K
6        43          59K         58       99K
.oE
The fields in the report have the following meanings:
.VL
.LI "\*LM\*O"
Indicates the position of the mailer in the \*Lsendmail.cf\*O file.
.LI "\*Lmsgsfr\*O"
Contains the number of messages received by
the local machine from the indicated mailer.
.LI "\*Lbytes_from\*O"
Contains the number of bytes in the messages
received by the local machine from the indicated mailer.
.LI "\*Lmsgsto\*O"
Contains the number of messages sent from the
local machine using the indicated mailer.
.LI "\*Lbytes_to\*O"
Contains the number of bytes in the messages
sent from the local machine using the indicated mailer.
.LE
If \*Lsendmail\*O transmits mail directly to a file, such as
the \*Ldead.letter\*O file or an alias target, the message and
byte counts are credited to the \*Lprog\*O mailer, as defined in the
\*Lsendmail.cf\*O file.  However, \*Lmailstats\*O will still default to
\*Lvar/adm/sendmail/sendmail.st\*O.
.SH "FILES"
.PP 
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/mailstats\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/var/adm/sendmail/sendmail.st\*O"
Contains system statistics
.LI "\*L/var/adm/sendmail/sendmail.cf\*O
Contains configuration information for \*Lsendmail\*O
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands: \*Lsendmail\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
