.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mailsetup.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/09 20:18:15 $
.\" 
.TH mailsetup 8
.PP
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lmailsetup\*O \- Configures the host's mail system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "mailsetup script"
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/mailsetup\*O [\*L-f \*Vfile\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-f\*V file"
Specifies the name of the resulting configuration file.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lmailsetup\*O command sets up the mail system on your host. You can
use this command to do a quick setup where defaults are used or to do
a more extensive setup.
.PP
Before you run \*Lmailsetup\*O your machine needs a local domain name and
it should be established on a local area network (LAN).  If you have not
run \*Lbindsetup\*O you will be asked for the BIND domain name for your
local area network.  For a quick setup, the only additional
information you will be asked for is the name of the mail relay you
will be using and which users are considered local.  On the more extensive
setup you will also be asked
for UUCP, DECnet, and UMC configuration information, aliases for your
machine, local address formats and other domain information.
.PP
You must run the \*Lmailsetup\*O command as superuser and with the system in
multiuser mode.
.PP
When you run \*Lmailsetup\*O a menu is displayed giving you a choice of
responses.  You are then prompted for further information.
.PP
If you do not use the \*L\-f\*O flag, before mailsetup exits it asks if
you wish to restart your mail with this new configuration.  If you
answer no, your configuration file is saved in
\*L/var/adm/sendmail/sendmail.cf.tmp\*O and will abort the install.  If you
answer yes, your \*L/var/adm/sendmail/sendmail.cf\*O in
\*L/var/adm/sendmail/sendmail.cf.orig\*O, if no file by this name exists.
If \*L/var/adm/sendmail/sendmail.cf.orig\*O exists,
\*L/var/adm/sendmail/sendmail.cf\*O is moved to
\*L/var/adm/sendmail/sendmail.cf.n\*O, where \*Ln\*O is the version number
(0 to 6 where 0 is the most recent).  The new configuration file is then
moved to \*L/var/adm/sendmail/sendmail.cf\*O and sendmail is
restarted.
.PP
If you use the \*L-f\*O flag, the configuration file is saved
with the file name specified and sendmail is not restarted.
.PP
The \*Lmailsetup\*O script produces the following three files in
\*L/var/adm/sendmail\*O:
.ML
.LI
\*Lsendmail.m4\*O
.LI
\*Vhostname\*L.m4\*O
.LI
\*LMakefile.cf.\*Vhostname\*O
.LE
.PP
You can fine tune your configuration by modifying the \*Vhostname\*L.m4
and issuing a \*Lmake -f \*LMakefile.cf.\*Vhostname\*O command, which
produces a \*Vhostname\*L.cf\*O file. you can then copy the
\*Vhostname\*L.cf\*O file to \*Lsendmail.cf\*O and restart sendmail
using the \*L/sbin/init.d/sendmail restart\*O command.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/var/adm/sendmail/sendmail.cf\*O"
Specifies the \*Lsendmail\*O configuration file.
.LI "\*l/var/adm/sendmail/sendmail.cf.pd\*O"
Specifies the mail setup product description for the configuration file.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/sendmail/sendmail.cf.\*O{0-6}"
Specifies the backup configuration files.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/sendmail/sendmail.cf.orig\*O"
Specifies the Original configuration file.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/sendmail/sendmail.m4\*O"
Specifies the configuration file produced by \*Lmailsetup\*O.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/sendmail/\*Vhostname\*L.m4\*O"
Specifies the user configurable file produced by \*Lmailsetup\*O.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/sendmail/Makefile.cf.\*Vhostname\*O"
Specifies the \*LMakefile\*O file produced by *Lmailsetup\*O and used to make a
\*Vhostname\*L.cf\*O file from the \*Lsendmail.cf\*O and
\*Vhostname\*L.m4\*O files.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lsendmail\*O(8), \*Lbindsetup\*O(8), \*Lnetsetup\*O(8),
\*Lm4\*O(1)
.PP
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
