.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: MAKEDEV.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/06 17:34:19 $
.\"
.TH MAKEDEV 8
.SH NAME
\*LMAKEDEV\*O \- makes system special files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/dev/MAKEDEV \*O[ \*Vargument \*O] [ \*Vdevice-name?\*O ...]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "MAKEDEV command" "making special files"
The \*LMAKEDEV\*O shell script is normally used to install
special files. It resides in the \*L/dev\*O
directory, the normal location of special files.
Arguments to \*LMAKEDEV\*O are usually of the form
\*Vdevice-name?\*O where \*Vdevice-name\*O
is one of the supported devices listed in Section 7 of the
\*VReference Pages\*O
and \*V?\*O is a logical unit number.
\*Vargument\*O is one of the following special arguments that create assorted
collections of devices:
.\"The following where removed for Ag/Maint as per Fred Canter's 
.\" request. These are mips machines.
.\".IP DS_3100 15
.\"Creates the standard special device files associated with the DECstation 3100.
.\".IP DS_5000
.\"Creates the standard special device files associated with the DECstation 5000.
.\".IP DS_5000_100
.\"Creates the standard special device files associated with the DECstation 5000
.\"Model 100.
.\".IP DS_5000_200
.\"Creates the standard special device files associated with the DECstation 5000
.\"Model 200.
.\".IP DS_5000_300
.\"Creates the standard special device files associated with the DECstation 5000
.\"Model 300.
.\".IP DS_5100
.\"Creates the standard special device files associated with the DECsystem 5100.
.\".IP DSPERSONAL_DECSTATION
.\"Creates the standard special device files associated with the Personal
.\"DECstation.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lstd\*O"
Creates all \*Vstandard\*O device files for all systems.
.\".PP
.\"Standard devices for MIPS-based systems
.\"are as follows: \*Lklog\*O, \*Lkmem\*O, \*Lmem\*O, \*Lnull\*O,
.\"\*Lconsole\*O, \*Ltty\*O, \*Lpty0\*O, \*Lpty1\*O, \*Lkbinlog\*O,
.\"\*Lptm\*O, and \*Lcam\*O.
.IP
Standard devices for Alpha AXP-based systems
are as follows: \*Lklog\*O, \*Lkmem\*O, \*Lmem\*O, \*Lnull\*O,
\*Lconsole\*O, \*Ltty\*O, \*Lpty0\*O, \*Lpty1\*O, \*Lkbinlog\*O,
\*Lptm\*O, \*Lpm0\*O, and \*Lcam\*O.
.\"The following where removed for Ag/Maint as per Fred Canter's 
.\" request.
.\".PP
.\"Standard devices specific to certain machines are as follows:
.\".sp
.\"DECstation 3100: \*Lpm0\*O, \*Lxcons\*O, and \*Ldc0\*O
.\".sp
.\"DECstation 5000 Model 200: \*Lpm0\*O, \*Lxcons\*O, and \*Ldc0\*O
.\".sp
.\"DECstation 5000 Model 100: \*Lpm0\*O, \*Lxcons\*O, and \*Lscc0\*O
.\".sp
.\"DECsystem 5100: \*Lmdc0\*O
.\".sp
.\"DSPERSONAL_DECSTATION: \*Lpm0\*O, \*Lxcons\*O, \*Lscc0\*O, \*Ldti0\*O
.LI "\*Llat\*Vn\*O"
Creates a set of 16 LAT device special files, one for each LAT terminal
device. The \*Vn\*O specifies the set option. The set option range is 0
to 38. Specifying \*Llat38\*O creates 12 LAT device special files.
.LI "\*LPTY_\*V#\*O"
Creates groups of pseudoterminal device special files, as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LPTY_1"
Creates \*Lpty0\*O to \*Lpty22\*O.
.LI "\*LPTY_2"
Creates \*Lpty23\*O to \*Lpty45\*O.
.LI "\*LPTY_3"
Creates \*Lpty46\*O to \*Lpty56\*O.
.LI "\*LPTY_4"
Creates \*Lpty57\*O to \*Lpty64\*O.
.LI "\*LPTY_5"
Creates \*Lpty65\*O to \*Lpty72\*O.
.LI "\*LPTY_6"
Creates \*Lpty73\*O to \*Lpty80\*O.
.LI "\*LPTY_7"
Creates \*Lpty81\*O to \*Lpty88\*O.
.LI "\*LPTY_8"
Creates \*Lpty89\*O to \*Lpty96\*O.
.LI "\*LPTY_9"
Creates \*Lpty97\*O to \*Lpty101\*O.
.LE
.IP
The \*V#\*O specifies the group of pseudoterminal device special files created.
.LI "\*Llocal\*O"
Creates those devices specific to the local site.  This
request causes the shell file \*L/dev/MAKEDEV.local\*O
to be executed.  This file must exist prior to using the \*Vlocal\*O
argument. Site specific commands, such as those used to setup dialup lines
as ttyd? and to create device special files for all non-Digital devices, should
be included in this file.
.LE
.PP
Because all devices are created using \*Lmknod\*O(8)
this shell script is useful only to the superuser.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Either self-explanatory, or generated by one of the programs
called from the script.  Use \*Lsh -x MAKEDEV\*O in case of trouble.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lintro\*O(7), \*Lconfig\*O(8), \*Lmknod\*O(8), \*Lpty\*O(7)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
