.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: makedbm.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/08 23:59:47 $
.\"
.TH makedbm 8
.SH NAME
\*Lmakedbm\*O \- Makes a Network Information Service (NIS) dbm file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lmakedbm\*O [\*L\-i\*O \*Vyp_input_file\*O] [\*L\-o\*O \*Vyp_output_name\*O] [\*L\-d\*O \*Vyp_domain_name\*O] [\*L\-m\*O \*Vyp_master_name\*O] \*Vinfile\*O \*Voutfile\*O
.PP
\*Lmakedbm\*O [\*L\-u\*O \*Vdbmfilename\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L\-i\*O"
Creates a special entry with the key yp_input_file.
.LI "\*L\-o\*O"
Creates a special entry with the key yp_output_name.
.LI "\*L\-d\*O"
Creates a special entry with the key yp_domain_name.
.LI "\*L\-m\*O"
Creates a special entry with the key yp_master_name.
If no master host name is specified, yp_master_name
will be set to the local host name.
.LI "\*L\-u\*O"
Undoes a \*Ldbm\*O file. That is, prints out a \*Ldbm\*O
file one entry per line, with a single space separating keys from values.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "makedbm command"
.iX "makedbm command" "yppush command"
.iX "makedbm command" "dbm file"
.iX "dbm keyword" "makedbm command"
The \*Lmakedbm\*O command takes the file specified by the argument
\*Vinfile\*O and converts it to a pair of files in
\*Ldbm\*O3 format, namely \*Loutfile.pag\*O and \*Loutfile.dir\*O.
Each line of the input file is converted to a single
\*Ldbm\*O record.
All characters up to the first tab or space form the key,
and the rest of the line is defined as the key's associated data.
If a line ends with a backslash (\\),
the data for that record is continued onto the next line.
It is left for the Network Information Service (NIS) clients to
interpret the number sign (#); \*Lmakedbm\*O does not treat it
as a comment character.  The \*Vinfile\*O parameter can be a hyphen (-),
in which case \*Lmakedbm\*O reads the standard input.
.PP
The \*Lmakedbm\*O command is meant to be used in generating
\*Ldbm files\*O for NIS.
The \*Lmakedbm\*O command generates a special entry with the key
yp_last_modified, which is the date of \*Vinfile\*O.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example shows how a combination of commands can be used
to make the NIS \*Ldbm\*O files \*Lpasswd.byname.pag\*O and
\*Lpasswd.byname.dir\*O from the \*L/etc/passwd\*O file.  The percent sign (%)
signifies the system prompt.
.PP
.iS
% awk 'BEGIN { FS = ":"; OFS = "\t"; }
 { print $1, $0 }' /etc/passwd > ptmp
% makedbm ptmp passwd.byname
% rm ptmp
.iE
.PP
The \*Lawk\*O command creates the file \*Vptmp\*O
which is in a form usable by \*Lmakedbm\*O.
The \*Lmakedbm\*O command uses the \*Vptmp\*O
file to create the NIS dbm files \*Lpasswd.byname.dir\*O
and \*Lpasswd.byname.pag\*O. The \*Lrm\*O command removes the
\*Vptmp\*O file.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lyppasswd\*O(1), \*Lypmake\*O(8)
.PP
Functions: \*Ldbm\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
