.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mkfdmn.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/21 19:04:48 $
.\"
.TH mkfdmn 8
.PP
.\"
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lmkfdmn\*O \- creates a new file domain
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX  "mkfdmn command"
.iX "File domain" "creating"
.\"
.sS
\*L/sbin/mkfdmn\*O
[\*L\-o\*O]
[\*L\-l\*O \*Vlog_pages\*O]
[\*L\-t\*O \*Vtype\*O]
\*Vspecial\*O
\*Vdomain\*O
.\"  
.sE
.sp 8p
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vspecial\*O"
.iX "File domain" "initial volume"
Specifies the block special device name, such as \*L/dev/rz1c\*O, of the initial
volume that you use to create the file domain.
.LI "\*Vdomain\*O"
.iX "File domain" "naming"
Specifies the name of the file domain.
.LE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*L\-o\*O"
.iX "File domain" "restructuring"
Overwrites an existing file domain, allowing you to recreate the domain
structure.
.LI "\*L\-l\*O \*Vlog_pages\*O"
.iX "Log page"
.iX "Default log page"
Specifies the number of log pages in the file domain. The default is 512 log
pages. Each log page is 8192 bytes.
.LI "\*L\-t\*O \*Vtype\*O"
.iX "Disk type" "in file domain"
Enables you to define the disk type of the initial volume.  This action is
necessary only if the disk has not already been labeled with the
\*Ldisklabel\*O utility.
.LE
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\"
The \*Lmkfdmn\*O command creates a file domain, which is a logical
construct containing both physical volumes (disks or disk partitions) and
filesets. When you create a file domain, you must specify one volume.
.PP
.iX "Fileset" "mounting"
.iX "Mounting a fileset"
The \*Lmkfdmn\*O command does not create a file system that you can mount. In
order to mount an Advanced File System, the file domain must contain one or
more filesets.  Therefore, after you run the \*Lmkfdmn\*O command, you must
run the \*Lmkfset\*O command to create at least one fileset within the
new file domain. You can access the file system as soon as you mount one or
more filesets. For more information about creating filesets, see the
\*Lmkfset\*O(8) reference page.
.PP
To remove a file domain, dismount all filesets in the domain using the
following command line:

.oS

# rm -rf /etc/fdmns/\*Vdomain_name\*O

.oE
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
.\"
You must have root-user privilege to access this command.
Also, you cannot create more than 4000 file domains per system and only 100
file domains can be active at one time. A file domain is active when at least
one fileset is mounted.
.PP
Each file domain must have a unique name of up to 31 characters. The space
character and the \(fr # : * ? characters are invalid for file domain names.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
The following example creates the \*Laccounts_dmn\*O file domain with the
special device \*L/dev/rz1c\*O as the initial volume:
.oS

# mkfdmn /dev/rz1c accounts_dmn
.oE
.PP
.\"
Until you create and mount a fileset for the \*Laccounts_dmn\*O file domain,
you cannot access the file system.  See \*Ladvfs\*O(4) for an example of
creating and mounting an Advanced File System.
.PP
Maintain a hardcopy record of each file domain and its initial volume.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 8m
.LI "\*L/etc/fdmns\*O"
Contains file domain names and devices.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.\" COMMANDS:
.\" \*Ldefgh_refpg\*O(1), etc
.\" 
.\" Un/comment related manpgs as approp.
.\" \*Lchfset\*O(8), 
.\" \*Lchfdmn\*O(8), 
.\" \*Lclonefset\*O(8), 
.\" \*Ldefrag\*O(8),
.\"
\*Ladvfs\*O(4),
.\" \*Laddvol\*O(8),
.\" \*Lmigrate\*O(8),
.\"
.\"\*Lmkfdmn\*O(8),
.\" 
\*Lfdmns\*O(4),
\*Lmkfset\*O(8),
\*Lmount\*O(8),
.\" \*Ladvfs\*O(4),
.\" \*Lrmfset\*O(8),
.\"\*Lshowbitmap\*O(8),
.\" 
\*Lshowfdmn\*O(8).
.\" \*Lshowfsets\*O(8),
.\" \*Lshowxtnts\*O(8)
.\"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
