.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mkfset.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/21 19:25:57 $
.\"
.TH mkfset 8
.PP
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lmkfset\*O \- creates a fileset in an existing file domain
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX  "mkfset command"
.\"
.sS
\*L/sbin/mkfset\*O \*Vdomain\*O \*Vsetname\*O
.\"
.sE
.\"
.sp 8p
.\"
.VL 7m
.LI "\*Vdomain\*O"
Specifies the name of an existing file domain.
.LI "\*Vsetname\*O"
Specifies the name of the fileset to be created in the specified file domain.
.LE
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "Fileset" "creating"
.iX "Fileset" "and file domain"
.iX "Creating a fileset"
.\"
The
\*Cmkfset\*O
command creates a fileset within an existing file domain. The Advanced File
System must include at least one fileset per file domain; however, you can
create multiple filesets within a file domain. You can mount and unmount each
fileset independently of the other filesets in the file domain.
.PP
Use the following commands and utilities to manipulate filesets:
.sp 6p
.VL 6m
.LI "\*Lshowfsets\*O"
Displays the filesets associated with a domain.
.LI "\*Lrmfset\*O"
Removes a fileset (and all of its files) from the file domain.
.LE
.PP
For more information, see the reference pages for each command.
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
.\" 
You must have root-user privilege to access this command.
.PP
Each fileset within a domain must have a unique name of up to 31 characters.
The space character and the \*L\(fr # : * ?\*O characters are invalid for
fileset names.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.\" 
The following example creates two filesets, \*Lcredit_fs\*O and
\*Ldebit_fs\*O, within an existing domain called \*Laccounts_dmn\*O.
.oS

\*L#\*O \*Lmkfset accounts_dmn credit_fs\*O
\*L#\*O \*Lmkfset accounts_dmn debit_fs\*O

.oE
.iX "Fileset" "mounting"
.iX "Mounting a fileset"
To mount the newly created \*Lcredit_fs\*O fileset on the \*L/mnt/credit\*O
directory, enter:
.oS

\*L#\*O \*Lmount -t advfs accounts_dmn#credit_fs /mnt/credit\*O

.oE
.\"
.iX "Fileset" "adding"
.iX "Adding filesets"
You can add filesets to the \*Lfstab\*O file in the same manner that you add any
file system. Once added, filesets are mounted each time you reboot the system.
For example, to automatically mount the \*Lcredit_fs\*O fileset, add the
following line to your \*Lfstab\*O file:
.oS

accounts_dmn#credit_fs /mnt/credit advfs rq, userquota, groupquota

.oE
AdvFS always maintains quota information; therefore, it is useful to
add the quota options
to the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file to enable all AdvFS quota commands.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*L.tags\*O"
A permanent directory that is reserved for future use.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.\" COMMANDS:
.\" \*Ldefgh_refpg\*O(1), etc
.\" 
.\" \*Lclonefset\*O(8),
.\" \*Ldefrag\*O(8),
.\"
\*Lmkfdmn\*O(8),
.\"
.\" \*Lmkfset\*O(8),
.\"
\*Ladvfs\*O(4),
.\"
\*Lrmfset\*O(8),
.\"\*Lshowbitmap\*O(8),
.\"
\*Lshowfdmn\*O(8),
.\"
\*Lshowfsets\*O(8).
.\"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
