.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mknod.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:36:29 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.TH mknod 8
.SH NAME
\*Lmknod\*O \- Creates a special file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS 
\*L/usr/sbin/mknod\*O \*Vspecial_file\*O [\*L\0b \*Vmajor_device#\*O \*Vminor_device#\*O | \*L\0c\*O \*Vmajor_device#\*O \*Vminor_device#\&\*O]\*L
.PP 
\*L/usr/sbin/mknod\*O \*Vfilename\*O \*Lp\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "mknod command"
.iX "creating" "special files"
.iX "files" "special"
.iX "special files"
.PP 
The
\*Lmknod\*O
command makes a directory entry.
The first argument is the name of the
\*Vspecial device file\*O.
Select a name that is descriptive of the device.
.PP 
The
\*Lmknod\*O
command has two forms.
In the first form, the second argument is the \*Lb\*O or \*Lc\*O
flag.
The last two arguments are numbers specifying the
\*Vmajor_device\*O,
which helps the operating system find the device driver code,
and the
\*Vminor_device\*O,
the unit drive, or line
number, which may be either decimal or octal.
.PP 
The assignment of major device numbers is specific to each system.
You can determine the device numbers by examining the
\*Lconf.c\*O
system source file.
If you change the contents of the
\*Lconf.c\*O
file
to add a device driver, you must rebuild the kernel.
.PP 
In the second form of
\*Lmknod\*O,
you
use the
\*Lp\*O
flag to create named pipes (FIFOs).
.PP 
Only the superuser can create a character or device special file.
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*Lb\*O"
Indicates that the special file
corresponds to a block-oriented device (disk or tape)
.LI "\*Lc\*O"
Indicates that the special file corresponds to a character-oriented device
.LI "\*Lp\*O"
Creates named pipes (FIFOs)
.LE 
.SH EXAMPLES
.AL
.LI
To create the special file for a new drive, \*L/dev/ra2\*O,
with a major device number of \*L1\*O
and a minor device number of \*L2\*O, enter:
.iS
mknod /dev/ra2 b  1  2
.iE
This command creates the special file, \*L/dev/ra2\*O,
which is a
block special file with major device number \*L1\*O and
minor device number \*L2\*O.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" QAR 6192 says that the example below is wrong and give a new one.
.\" The old OSF example appears in their R1.1 manpage, so it is just
.\" commented out here.  The new example from QAR 6192 follows.
.\" .LI 
.\" To create a named pipe, enter:
.\" .iS
.\" mknod \*Vpipe\*O p
.\" .iE
.\" This command creates the FIFO called \*Vpipe\*O in your current directory.
.LI
To create a pipe named \*Lfifo\*O, enter:
.iS
mknod fifo p
.iE
This command creates the pipe \*Lfifo\*O, which is not necessarily in the 
current directory.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.LE 
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/mknod\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*Lconf.c\*O"
Specifies the system device numbers specification file
.iX "mknod command"
.LE 
.EQ
delim off
.EN
