.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mkpasswd.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/20 00:04:18 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH mkpasswd 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lmkpasswd\*O \- Creates a version of the basic user database organized for efficient searches
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/mkpasswd \-v\*O \*Vpasswdfile\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "mkpasswd command"
.iX "generating" "hashed password table"
.iX "hashed password table"
.iX "passwords" "hashed table"
.iX "tables" "hashed password"
The \*Lmkpasswd\*O command creates an auxiliary version of the
basic user database in a form organized for efficient searches
by the
\*Lgetpwuid\*O subroutine and the \*Lgetpwnam\*O subroutine.
The \*Lmkpasswd\*O command reads the user attributes in the
\*L/etc/passwd\*O file
and creates a hashed password database in the \*L/etc/passwd.dir\*O
and
\*L/etc/passwd.pag\*O files (see
\*Lndbm\*O(3) reference page).
.PP
If you specify a file other than
\*L/etc/password\*O, the command reads the user attributes in that
file and creates a hashed password database in the \*Vpasswdfile\*L.dir\*O and
\*Vpasswdfile\*L.pag\*O files. It is important to know that the
password file you designate be in password file format (see the
\*Lpasswd\*O(4) reference page.)
.PP
.PP
Only the
\*Lroot\*O
user
should have execute access to this command.
.PP
\*LFiles Accessed:\*O
.VL
.LI "\*LMode\*O"
\*LFile\*O
.LI "r"
\*L/etc/passwd\*O
.LI "rw"
\*L/etc/passwd.pag\*O
.LI "rw"
\*L/etc/passwd.dir\*O
.LI "rw"
\*Vpasswdfile\*O
.LI "rw"
\*Vpasswdfile\*L\&.pag\*O
.LI "rw"
\*Vpasswdfile\*L\&.dir\*O
.LE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
\*L\-v\*O
Specifies that each stored entry be listed on standard output
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
If you have not used \*Lvipw\*O to edit the \*L/etc/passwd\*O and wish
to generate a hashed password database, enter the following:
.iS
mkpasswd \-v /etc/passwd
.iE
An auxiliary version of the basic user database (\*L/etc/passwd.dir\*O
and \*L/etc/passwd.pag\*O files) is created with a
hashing algorithm.
.iX "mkpasswd command"
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lmkpasswd\*O command exits
with a nonzero exit code if any errors are detected.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
