.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mkproto.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/21 15:04:53 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" 
.\" This manpage originated from BSD (4.4, 4.3-tahoe) material
.\" 
.\"	@(#)mkproto.8	6.1 (Berkeley) 4/27/85
.\" 
.TH mkproto 8
.SH NAME
\*Lmkproto\*O \- Constructs a prototype file system
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*Lmkproto\*O \*Vspecial proto\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP 
The \*Lmkproto\*O command
is used to bootstrap a new file system.
First a new file system is created using \*Lnewfs\*O.
\*Lmkproto\*O
is then used to copy files from the old file system into
the new file system according to the directions found
in the prototype file \*Vproto\*O.
The prototype file
contains tokens separated by spaces or newlines.
The first tokens comprise the specification
for the root directory.
File specifications consist of tokens,
giving the mode, the user ID, the group ID,
and the initial contents of the file.
The syntax of the contents field
depends on the mode.
.PP 
The mode token for a file is a 6-character string.
The first character specifies
the type of the file.
(The characters \*L-bcd\*O
specify regular, block-special,
character-special, and directory files,
respectively.) The second character of the type
is either a \*Lu\*O or a \*L-\*O (dash)
to specify \*Lsetuid\*O mode or not.
The third character is either a \*Lg\*O or a \*L-\*O (dash)
for the \*Lsetgid\*O mode.
The rest of the mode
is a 3-digit octal number, giving the
owner, group, and other read, write, execute
permissions.  (See the \*Lchmod\*O(1) command for more information.)
.PP 
Two decimal number
tokens come after the mode; they specify the
user and group IDs of the owner of the file:
.ML
.LI 
If the file is a regular file,
the next token is a pathname
from which the contents and size are copied.
.LI 
If the file is a block-special or a character-special file,
two decimal number tokens
follow, giving the major and minor device numbers.
.LI 
If the file is a directory,
\*Lmkproto\*O
makes the entries \&. (dot) and \&.\&. (dot dot)
and then
reads a list of names and (recursively)
file specifications for the entries in the directory.
The scan is terminated with the
token \*L$\*O.
.LE
.PP 
The following listing shows a sample prototype specification.
.oS
d\-\-777 3 1
usr	d\-\-777 3 1
	sh	\-\-\-755 3 1 /bin/sh
	ken	d\-\-755 6 1
		$
	b0	b\-\-644 3 1 0 0
	c0	c\-\-644 3 1 0 0
	$
$
.oE
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/mkproto\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lfsck\*O(8), \*Lfsdb\*O(8), 
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" There is no mkfs(8) manpage
.\" \*Lmkfs\*O(8), 
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
\*Lnewfs\*O(8).
.iX "mkproto command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
