.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mold.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/13 13:42:18 $
.\"
.TH mold 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lmold\*O \- Managed Object Location Directory component of the POLYCENTER Common Agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/mold\*O
.sE
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "mold command"
The \*Lmold\*O process executes in conjunction with the other Common Agent
components to provide SNMP agent management functionality.
The other run-time Common Agent components consist of
the \*Linternet_mom\*O process, the \*Lfddi_mom\*O process, the
\*Ltrn_mom\*O process, and \*Lsnmp_pe\*O process.
.PP
The \*Linternet_mom\*O process is the Managed Object Module (MOM)
component of the POLYCENTER Common Agent that provides access to the
Internet MIB-II objects as defined by
\*VManagement Information Base for Network Management of
TCP/IP-based Internets: MIB II\*O (RFC 1213).
The \*Lfddi_mom\*O process is the MOM component of the POLYCENTER Common
Agent that provides access to the FDDI MIB managed objects as defined by
\*VFDDI Management Information Base\*O (RFC 1285). The \*Ltrn_mom\*O process
is the MOM component of the POLYCENTER Common Agent that provides access to
managed objects as defined by \*VIEEE 802.5 Token
Ring MIB\*O (RFC 1231).  The \*Lsnmp_pe\*O process is the Common Agent's SNMP protocol engine that
handles incoming SNMP management requests, sends SNMP management responses,
and issues SNMP traps.
.PP
The \*Lmold\*O process provides two basic functions: it is the registration
facility that relates managed object classes to the MOM that supports the
class, and also acts as a MOM lookup service for the Common Agent components.
Once a MOM starts up and is ready to manage a manageable object, it must
register the object classes it supports with \*Lmold\*O so that the MOM
can receive incoming management requests for those classes.
For each valid incoming request received by the SNMP protocol engine, the
\*Lsnmp_pe\*O process queries the \*Lmold\*O for
location information about the target managed object module supporting
the requested classes.
.PP
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lsnmpsetup\*O(8)
.PP
Daemons: \*Lfddi_mom\*O(8), \*Linternet_mom\*O(8), \*Lsnmp_pe\*O(8),
\*Ltrn_mom\*O(8)
.PP
\*VA Simple Network Management Protocol\*O (RFC 1157)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
