.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mountd.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/20 00:07:24 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1989 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
.\" provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
.\" duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
.\" advertising materials, and other materials related to such
.\" distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
.\" by the University of California, Berkeley.  The name of the
.\" University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\" from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\"	@(#)mountd.8	5.2 (Berkeley) 11/30/89
.\" 
.TH mountd 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lmountd\*O \- Services remote NFS compatible mount requests
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note information
.\" End Digital-specific information
.sS
.\"Commented this out and left the Digital expanded version.
.\"\*Lmountd\*O [\*L-n\*O] [\*Vexportsfile\*O]
.\".sp
.\"[Digital only]
.\".nL
\*Lmountd\*O [\*L-n\*O] [\*L-i\*O] [\*L-d\*O] [\*L-s\*O] [\*Vexportsfile\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L-n\c\*O"
The optional \*L-n\*O option allows non-root mount requests to be served.
This should only be specified if there are clients such as PC's that
require it.
.\"Removed Digital only.
ULTRIX BSD allowed non-root mount requests by default.  Use
the \*L-n\*O flag to allow non-root mount requests.
.LI "\*L-i\*O"
.\"Removed Digital only.
Turns on Internet address verification for mounts
and unmounts.  If the client's address is not in the server's host
database, the request is rejected.
.LI "\*L-d\*O"
.\"Removed Digital only.
Turns on Internet address verification and domain checking.  If you are
running the BIND service, \*Lmountd\*O will verify that the host
requesting a mount or unmount is in the server's domain.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
.\"Removed Digital only.
Turns on Internet address verification and subdomain checking.  If you
are running the BIND service, \*Lmountd\*O will verify that the host
requesting a mount or unmount is in the server's domain or subdomain.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "mountd"
.iX "NFS"
.iX "file" "mount requests"
The \*Lmountd\*O daemon is the server for NFS protocol
mount requests from clients.
The \*Lmountd\*O daemon responds to requests from remote computer
systems to mount directories.
When getting the signal \*LSIGHUP\*O, \*Lmountd\*O rereads the
\*Lexports\*O file.
.PP
The optional \*Vexportsfile\*O argument specifies an alternate
location for the \*Lexports\*O file.  \*L/etc/exports\*O is the default.
.PP
.\"Removed Digital specific reference.
.\" The following information is specific to Digital.
NFS can export partitions that are greater than 2 gigabytes. However,
they appear as 2 gigabyte partitions when viewed from NFS clients.
.\" End Digital specific information.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/mountd\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/etc/exports\*O"
Contains a list of directories that can be exported
.LI "\*L/etc/services\*O"
Shows the network services available on this system
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lnfsstat\*O(8), \*Lnfsd\*O(8), \*Lportmap\*O(8), \*Lshowmount\*O(8)
.PP
Files: \*Lexports\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
