.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" 
...\"
...\"  NOTE:  This file is based on the original OSF source file,
...\"         but has been GREATLY modified by Digital.
...\"
...\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
...\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail
...\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
...\"
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
...\"
...\" @(#)mount.1m	1.5 15:04:03 8/22/90 SecureWare Inc.
...\"
...\" Based on CMW+ Evaluation Version
...\"
...\" Copyright (c) 1989-90 SecureWare, Inc.
...\" All rights reserved
...\" @(#)mount.1m	1.2 17:34:53 3/28/90
...\"build rmifdef
.\" endif
.TH mount 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lmount\*O, \*Lumount\*O \- Mounts and dismounts file systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/mount\*O [\*L\-el\*O] [\*L\-t\*O [\*Lno\*O]\*Vtype\*O]
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/mount\*O \*L\-a\*O [\*L\-fv\*O] [\*L\-t\*O [\*Lno\*O]\*Vtype\*O]
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/mount\*O [\*L\-d\*O] [\*L\-r\*O|\*L\-u\*O|\*L\-w\*O] [\*L\-o\*O \*Voption\*O\*L,\*O \&...] [\*L\-t\*O [\*Lno\*O]\*Vtype\*O]
\*Vfile-system\*O \*Vdirectory\*O
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/mount\*O [\*L\-d\*O] [\*L\-r\*O|\*L\-u\*O|\*L\-w\*O] [\*L\-o\*O \*Voption\*O\*L,\*O \&...] [\*L\-t\*O [\*Lno\*O]\*Vtype\*O] \*Vfile-system\*O | \*Vdirectory\*O
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/umount\*O \*L\-a\*O|\*L\-A\*O \*L\-b\*O [\*L\-fv\*O] [\*L\-t\*O \*Vtype\*O] [\*L\-h \*Vhost\*O]
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/umount\*O [\*L\-fv\*O] \*Vfile-system\*O \&... | \*Vdirectory\*O \&...
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.SS mount Flags
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-a\*O"
Attempts to mount all the file systems described in
the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file.
In this case, \*Vfile-system\*O and \*Vdirectory\*O are taken
from the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file.
If \*L\-t\*O \*Vtype\*O is specified, all of the
file systems in the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file with that type will be mounted.
Alternatively, if \*Vtype\*O is prefixed with \*Lno\*O, all the file
systems in the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file that do not have that type
will be mounted.  File systems are not necessarily mounted in the order
listed in the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file.
.IP
Note that it is possible to create and mount a file system
on a device that is currently part of a logical volume.
This is because physical disks on which the Logical Volume Manager (LVM)
creates logical volumes are not protected from access by other programs.
.LI "\*L\-d\*O"
Mounts a UNIX File System (UFS) even if it has not been unmounted cleanly
or checked by \*Lfsck\*O for consistency.  Also used to mount a CD-ROM
UFS file system.
.LI "\*L\-e\*O"
Lists all mount points.  Normally, \*Lmount\*O does not list mount points
served by the \*Lautomount\*O daemon.
.\" Removed per Mitch Condylis - BAC
.\".LI "\*L\-f\*O"
.\"Fakes a new \*L/etc/mtab\*O entry, but does not actually
.\"mount any file systems.
.\" Added in the information from the Environment note on -f.  MB
.LI "\*L\-f\*O"
Performs a ``fake'' mount and does not actually mount the file system.
This flag is used to verify the arguments you plan to use with the
\*Lmount\*O command.
.LI "\*L\-l\*O"
Displays the value of all the file system options.
.LI "\*L\-o\*O \*Voption\*O[\*L, \*Voption\*O \&...]"
Specifies a list of comma-separated options.  Some options are valid for all
file system types, while others apply to a specific
type only.
See the File System Options section for descriptions of each option.
.\".LI "\*L\-p\*O"
.\"Prints the list of mounted file systems in a format
.\"suitable for use in the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file.
.LI "\*L\-r\*O"
Mounts the specified file system with read-only access.
This flag is shorthand for the following:
.iS
mount \-o ro  \*Vfile-system  directory\*O
.iE
.IP
Physically write-protected and magnetic tape file systems must be mounted
with read-only access or errors will occur when access times are updated,
whether or not any explicit write is attempted.  Note that \*L\-r\*O and
\*L\-w\*O are paired; the default is \*L\-w\*O.
.LI "\*L\-t\*O [\*Lno\*O]\*Vtype\*O"
Specifies the file system type.  The accepted types are:
.ML
.LI
\*Ladvfs\*O
.LI
\*Lufs\*O
.\" .LI
.\" \*Ls5fs\*O  not supported
.LI
\*Lnfs\*O
.LI
\*Lmfs\*O
.LI
\*Lcdfs\*O
.LE
.IP
See \*Lfstab\*O(4) for a description of the legal file system types.
If the \*Lno\*O prefix is used, all file types except the one
specified are mounted.
.LI "\*L\-u\*O"
Requests that the system remount a file system so that it can update any
incore data blocks for \*Lufs\*O type file systems.  This flag
works only for \*Lufs\*O file systems that are currently mounted read-only.
For example, the \*Lmount -ur\*O command updates incore data and leaves
the file system mounted read-only.
.LI "\*L\-v\*O"
Displays a message indicating which file system is being mounted (verbose).
.LI "\*L\-w\*O"
Mounts the specified file system with read/write access.  This flag
is equivalent to using the \*L\-o rw\*O flag.  Read/write is the default access.
.LE
.SS umount Flags
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-A\*O"
Attempts to unmount all the file systems currently mounted.
.LI "\*L\-a\*O"
Attempts to unmount all the file systems listed in the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file.
.LI "\*L\-b\*O"
Broadcasts a message to all server machines in the subnetwork to remove the
client host's name from the Network File System (NFS) status information.
.LI "\*L\-f\*O"
Performs a fast unmount operation that causes remote file systems to be
unmounted without notifying the server.
.LI "\*L\-h\*O \*Vhost\*O"
Unmounts all file systems listed in the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file that are
remotely mounted from \*Vhost\*O.
.\" .LI "\*L\-t\c\*O"
.LI "\*L\-t\*O \*Vtype\*O"
Unmounts all file systems listed in the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file that are
of the specified \*Vtype\*O.
.LI "\*L\-v\*O"
Displays a message indicating the file system
being unmounted (verbose).
.LE
.SS File System Options
The following options are valid on the Advanced File System (AdvFS):
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lrw\*O"
Allows read/write access.
.LI "\*Lro\*O"
Allows read-only access.
.LE
.PP
The following options are valid on both UFS and NFS file systems.
.\" Deleted noquota from the defaults listed in the next line.
The defaults are \*Lrw,suid, and exec\*O.
Options are specified as a comma-separated string.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Ldev\*O"
Allows access to block and character-special devices.
.LI "\*Lnodev\*O"
Disallows access from the file system to either block or character-special
devices.
.\" Commenting out per Stan Luke.
.\" .LI "\*Lquota\*O"
.\" Enforces usage limits.
.\" .LI "\*Lnoquota\*O"
.\" Does not enforces usage limits.
.LI "\*Lrw\*O"
Allows read/write access.
.LI "\*Lro\*O"
Allows read-only access.
.LI "\*Lsuid\*O"
Allows set-user-ID execution.
.LI "\*Lnosuid\*O"
Prohibits set-user-ID execution.
.LI "\*Lsync\*O"
Causes all writes to be written immediately to disk as well as to
the buffer cache.
.LI "\*Lnosync\*O"
Specifies that writes may return before data is written to disk.
.LI "\*Lexec\*O"
Allows binary execution.
.LI "\*Lnoexec\*O"
Prohibits binary execution.
.LE
.PP
.PP
The following options are specific to NFS file systems:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lbg\*O"
Retries in the background, if the first mount attempt fails.
.LI "\*Lfg\*O"
Retries in the foreground.
.LI "\*Lretry=\*O\*Vn\*O"
Sets the number of mount failure retries to \*Vn\*O.
.LI "\*Lrsize=\*O\*Vn\*O"
Sets the read buffer size to \*Vn\*O bytes.
.LI "\*Lwsize=\*O\*Vn\*O"
Sets the write buffer size to \*Vn\*O bytes.
.LI "\*Ltimeo=\*O\*Vn\*O"
Sets the NFS timeout period to \*Vn\*O tenths of a second.
.LI "\*Lretrans=\*O\*Vn\*O"
Sets the number of NFS retransmissions to \*Vn\*O.
.\" Commenting out per Eric Werme in QAR 10038.
.\" .LI "\*Lport=\*O\*Vn\*O"
.\" Sets the server Internet Protocol (IP) port number to \*Vn\*O.
.LI "\*Lintr\*O"
Allows \*Lhard\*O mounted file system operations to be interrupted.
.LI "\*Lnintr\*O"
Prevents \*Lhard\*O mounted file system operations from being interrupted.
.LI "\*Lsoft\*O"
Returns an error if the server does not respond.
.LI "\*Lhard\*O"
Retries the request until the server responds.
.LI "\*Lport=\*Vn\*O"
Set the server IP port number to the value of \*Vn\*O.  The default is
to query the \*Lportmap\*O daemon on the server for the port number
(which is almost always 2049).  This option is useful only when the
server is not running the \*Lportmap\*O daemon or is running multiple NFS
servers.  Both of these situations are very rare.
.LE
.PP
The defaults are \*Lfg\*O, \*Lretry=10000\*O, \*Ltimeo=11\*O, \*Lretrans=4\*O,
\*Lhard\*O, and \*Lintr\*O.
Defaults for \*Lrsize\*O and \*Lwsize\*O are set by the kernel.
.PP
The \*Lbg\*O option causes \*Lmount\*O to run in the background if
the server's \*Lmountd\*O does not respond. The \*Lmount\*O command
attempts each request \*Lretry\*O times before giving up.
Once the file system is mounted, each NFS request made
in the kernel waits \*Ltimeo\*O tenths of a second for a response.
If no response arrives, the timeout period is multiplied by 2 and the
request is retransmitted.  When \*Lretrans\*O
retransmissions have been sent with no reply,
a \*Lsoft\*O mounted file system returns an error on the request and
a \*Lhard\*O mounted file system retries the request.  File systems
that are mounted \*Lrw\*O (read/write)
should use the \*Lhard\*O option.  The number of
bytes in a read or write request can be set with the
\*Lrsize\*O and \*Lwsize\*O options.
.SS Update Visibility Options
The following options affect how quickly you see updates to a file or
directory that has been modified by another host.  Increasing these
values gives you slightly better performance.  Decreasing the values
decreases the time it takes for you to see modifications made on the
other host.  If you are the only person modifying files under this mount
point, you should increase these values.
.VL 10m
.LI "\*Lacdirmin=\*Vn\*O"
Holds cached directory attributes for at least \*Vn\*O seconds.
.LI "\*Lacdirmax=\*Vn\*O"
Holds cached directory attributes for no more than \*Vn\*O seconds.
The maximum value you can specify is 3600.
.LI "\*Lacregmin=\*Vn\*O"
Holds cached file attributes for at least \*Vn\*O seconds.
.LI "\*Lacregmax=\*Vn\*O"
Holds cached file attributes for no more than \*Vn\*O seconds.
The maximum value you can specify is 3600.
.LI "\*Lactimeo=\*Vn\*O"
Sets all four attributes' cache timeout values to \*Vn\*O.
.LI "\*Lnoac\*O"
Does not set attribute caching.  This option is equivalent to
\*Lactimeo=0\*O.
.LI "\*Lnocto\*O"
Does not get a fresh attribute when opening a file.
.LE
.PP
The defaults are \*Lacdirmin=30\*O, \*Lacdirmax=60\*O, \*Lacregmin=3\*O,
and \*Lacregmax=60\*O.
.PP
.PP
The following options are specific to CD-ROM File System (CDFS):
.VL 10m
.LI "\*Ldefperm\*O"
Ignores the permission bits, if present, and defaults all file and
directory permissions to the value 0555, with a zero User ID (UID)
(owned by root).
Files and directories recorded on an ISO 9660-formatted file system might
or might not have permission bits.  This setting is a default option
since the permissions on most existing ISO 9660-formatted CD-ROMs do
not map to the UID scheme that is used.
.LI "\*Lnodefperm\*O"
Uses the on-disk permission bits, if present.  If a file or directory is
not recorded with permission bits, the default 0555 is used.
.LI "\*Lnoversion\*O"
Strips off the extension (\*L;#\*O) from the version string if a file
recorded on an ISO 9660-formatted file system or a file system formatted
by the High Sierra Group contains a version string.
Files and directory names are displayed in lowercase letters and name
matching is performed in a case-insensitive manner.
Use this option if you are mounting a CD-ROM containing MS-DOS applications.
.LI "\*Lrrip\*O"
Uses the Rock Ridge Interchange Protocol (RRIP) extensions to ISO 9660 (if present on
the file system) to provide mixed-case file names, device special files, and
other attributes for files on the file system.  If there are no RRIP
extensions on the file system, the file system will be mounted and the option
will be ignored.
.LE
.PP
The defaults are \*Lro\*O, \*Lnodev\*O, and \*Ldefperm\*O.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "mount command"
.iX "umount command"
.PP
The \*Lmount\*O command announces to the system that file system
\*Vfile-system\*O is to be attached to the file tree at \*Vdirectory\*O, which
must already exist.  The file tree, \*Vdirectory\*O, becomes the name of the
newly mounted root.  The contents of \*Vdirectory\*O are hidden until the file
system is unmounted.
.PP
For the Advanced File System (AdvFS), the \*Vfile-system\*O argument has the
following form:
.PP
.oS
\*Vfiledomain\*O#\*Vfileset\*O
.oE
.PP
For the Network File System (NFS), the \*Vfile-system\*O argument can
have one of the following forms:
.PP
.oS
\*Vhost\*L:\*Vpath\*O

\*Vpath\*L@\*Vhost\*O
.oE
.PP
The form used in the \*Lmount\*O command determines the form returned
by \*Lgetfsstat\*O(2) and \*Lgetmntinfo\*O(3).
.PP
The \*Lumount\*O
command announces to the system that file system \*Vfile-system\*O
previously mounted on \*Vdirectory\*O should be removed.
Either the file system name or the mounted-on directory can be used.
.PP
To use the \*Lmount\*O and \*Lunmount\*O commands, you must
be root.
.PP
.\" Removed per Mitch Condylis - BAC
.\"The \*Lmount\*O and \*Lumount\*O commands
.\"maintain a table of mounted file systems in
.\"\*L/etc/mtab\*O, described in \*Lmtab\*O.
.\"If \*Lmount\*O is invoked without an argument, 
.\" \*Lmount\*O displays the table.
.\"Note that since \*L/etc/mtab\*O can be modified by commands other than
.\"\*Lmount\*O and \*Lumount\*O, its contents may not accurately reflect
.\"what is actually mounted.
If \*Lmount\*O is invoked with only one
of \*Vfile-system\*O or \*Vdirectory\*O, it
searches the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file for an entry whose \*Vdirectory\*O
or \*Vfile-system\*O field
matches the given argument.  For example,
\*Lmount /usr\*O and
\*Lmount /dev/rz0g\*O are shorthand for
\*Lmount /dev/rz0g /usr\*O
if the following line is in the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file:
.oS
/dev/rz0g /usr ufs rw 1 1
.oE
.PP
The \*Lmount\*O command also lets you mount an ISO 9660- or HSG-formatted file
system onto a directory.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.\"Mounting file systems full of garbage will crash the system.
No more than one user should mount a disk partition
with read/write access or the file system might become corrupted.
.PP
If the directory on which a file system is to be mounted is
a symbolic link, the file system is mounted on the directory
to which the symbolic link refers, rather than being mounted
on top of the symbolic link itself.
.PP
.\" The following information was added to resolve a qar.
When you boot to single-user mode, the root file system is mounted
with read-only access. If you want to modify a file, you must change the options on
the root file system to read/write. You can do this with the following
command:
.iS
# \*Lmount \-u /
.iE
.PP
If your \*L/etc/fstab\*O file is corrupted, you can mount the root file
system with the following command:
.iS
# \*Lmount \-u /dev/rz\*V?? \*L/
.iE
.PP
Refer to \*Lcdfs\*O(4) for information on the correct
system configuration options to set before using CDFS
if you get the following message when mounting an ISO 9660 or HSG volume:
.oS
cdfs_mount: Operation Not Supported
.oE
.PP
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\"This restriction was added to plug a security hole.
General users cannot mount UFS file systems.
Mounting UFS file systems requires superuser privilege.
.\"End Digital correction.
.PP
The default for CDFS is to not allow access to device special files (option
\*Lnodev\*O) since the device numbers recorded on a disc using RRIP
extensions might not match the device numbers used by the operating system. If
you wish to allow device access, mount the file system with the \*Ldev\*O
option and use the \*Lcddevsuppl\*O(8) command to map the device numbers of the
device special files on the disc to new device numbers used by the operating
system.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To mount a local disk, enter:
.iS
% \*Lmount /dev/rz0g /usr\*O
.iE
.LI
To mount an AdvFS fileset, enter:
.iS
% \*Lmount -t advfs usr_dmn#user1 /usr/user1\*O
.iE
.LI
To mount all \*Lufs\*O file systems, enter:
.iS
% \*Lmount \-at ufs\*O
.iE
.LI
To mount a remote file system, enter:
.iS
% \*Lmount \-t nfs serv:/usr/src /usr/src\*O
.iE
.LI
To mount a remote file system with a \*Lhard\*O mount, enter:
.iS
% \*Lmount \-o hard serv:/usr/src /usr/src\*O
.iE
.\".LI
.\"To save the current mount state, enter:
.\".iS
.\"mount \-p > /etc/fstab
.\".iE
.LI
To mount an ISO 9660- or HSG-formatted file system from block device
\*L/dev/rz3c\*O onto the local directory \*L/cdfs\*O with the file
version strings stripped off, enter:
.iS
% \*Lmount \-t cdfs \-o noversion /dev/rz3c /cdfs\*O
.iE
.LI
To mount a UFS CD-ROM (for example, the installation CD-ROM) from block
device \*L/dev/rz3c\*O onto the local directory \*Lcdrom\*O, enter:
.iS
% \*Lmount \-r /dev/rz3c /cdrom\*O
.iE
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 10m
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/mount\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/umount\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.\".LI "\*L/etc/mtab\c\*O"
.LI "\*L/etc/fstab\*O"
Contains static information about file systems.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lmountd\*O(8), \*Lnfsd\*O(8), \*Lcddevsuppl\*O(8)
.PP
Functions:  \*Lmount\*O(2), \*Lmount\*O(3), \*Lumount\*O(2), \*Lumount\*O(3)
.PP
Files:  \*Ladvfs\*O(4), \*Lcdfs\*O(4), \*Lfstab\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
