.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mtu.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/09 20:18:28 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  MTU (8n) Manpage for POLYCENTER Common Agent
.\"
.\"  Use the following command to test this manpage:
.\"
.\"    tbl <filename> | nroff -man | col | more
.\"   
.TH mtu 8
.SH NAME
\*Lmtu\*O \- POLYCENTER Common Agent MIB Translator Utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/mtu\*O [-c\*Vcode\*O] [-i] [-l] \*Vfile\*O.mib [\*Vfile\*L.mib\*O] ...
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-c\*Vcode\*O"
Specify the EMA entity \*Vcode\*O to be assigned to the root entity.
.\"
.LI "\*L\-i\*O"
Produce an informational parameter file for input to the
POLYCENTER Common Agent \*Lmomgen\*O utility (\*Vfile\*L.par\*O).
.\"
.LI "\*L\-l\*O"
Produce a listing file containing the MIB information from the
\*Vfile\*L.mib\*O file and
a summary of the mapping to EMA hierarchical structures in the
\*Lfile\*L.lis\*O file.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "mtu"
The \*Lmtu\*O utility translates MIB specification files (\*L.mib\*O) into EMA
Management Specification files (\*L.ms\*O).  The management specifications can
be loaded into the POLYCENTER Common Agent Management Information Repository
(MIR) by the \*L/usr/sbin/mirc\*O utility (see \*Lmirc\*O(8)).
.PP
The MIB structure and syntax is described by
\*VConcise MIB Definitions\*O (RFC-1212).  The EMA Management
Specification Language is described by the
\*VDECmcc System Reference Manual\*O.
.PP
If the Common Agent Developer's Toolkit layered product is installed,
the \*Lmtu\*O utility can also produce \*Lmomgen\*O information
files (\*Vfile\*L.par\*O)
from the MIB specification.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example translates the \*Lsuperbox.mib\*O MIB file into the MSL
file \*Lsuperbox.msl\*O (named by derivation), specifying 1000 as the EMA root
entity.  An information parameter \*Lsuperbox.par\*O is created that can
be use with the \*Lmomgen\*O utility.
.iS
# mtu -c 1000 -i superbox.mib
.iE
The following example translates all of the MIB files in the current working
directory into MSL files.  For each MIB file, \*Lmtu\*O produces the MSL
file (\*L.msl\*O), a listing file (\*L.lis\*O), and a \*Lmomgen\*O
informational parameter file (\*L.par\*O).
.iS
# mtu -i -l *.mib
.iE
The following example translates the \*Ltinybox.mib\*O MIB file into the MSL
file \*Ltinybox.msl\*O, specifying 500 as the EMA root entity.  A
\*Lmomgen\*O informational parameter file (\*Ltinybox.par\*O) is also
generated.  The \*Lsmallbox.mib\*O MIB file is translated into the MSL
file \*Lsmallbox.msl\*O, specifying 1000 as the EMA root entity. A
\*Lmomgen\*O informational parameter file (\*Lsmallbox.par\*O) is also
generated.
.iS
# mtu -c 500 -i tinybox.mib -c 1000 -i smallbox.mib
.iE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vfile\*L.lis\*O"
A listing file that contains a numbered version of the MIB input file
followed by a hierarchical management specification summary.  If errors are
encountered, this file contains the diagnostic at the line where the
error occurred.
.LI "\*Vfile\*L.mib\*O"
MIB input file.
.LI "\*Vfile\*L.ms\*O"
MSL output file.
.LI "\*Vfile\*L.par\*O"
The \*Lmomgen\*O informational parameter file.
It contains class, parent, and prefix
information used by the \*Lmomgen\*O utility when generating a Managed
Object Module.
.LE
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lmirc\*O(8)
.PP
\*VConcise MIB Definition\*O (RFC 1212)
.PP
\*VConvention for Defining Traps\*O (RFC 1215)
.PP
\*VDECmcc System Reference Manual\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
