.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: named-xfer.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/09 19:44:56 $
.\"
.\" new manpage created 28-feb-90 (JM)
.\"
.TH named-xfer 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lnamed-xfer\*O \- Pulls BIND zones from another server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/named-xfer\*O
\*L-z\*O
\*Vzone_to_transfer\*O
\*L-f\*O
\*Vdb_file\*O
\*L-s\*O
\*Vserial_no\*O
[
\*L-d\*O
\*Vdebug_level\*O
]
[
\*L-l\*O
\*Vdebug_log_file\*O
]
[
\*L-t\*O
\*Vtrace_file\*O
]
[
\*L-p\*O
\*Vport\*O
]
[
\*L-n\*O
]
[
\*L-a \*O
\*Vauth_type.auth_ver\*O
]
\*Vservers...\*O
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.iX "named-xfer transfer daemon" "flags"
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-z \*Vzone_to_transfer\*O"
This option is required to pull a zone.  The
\*Vzone_to_transfer\*O argument specifies the name of the BIND zone
that the \*Lnamed-xfer\*O
daemon will transfer, for example, dec.com.
.LI "\*L-f \*Vdb_file\*O"
This option is  required to pull a zone.  The
\*Vdb_file\*O argument specifies the name of the file into which the pulled
zone information is placed.
.LI "\*L-s \*Vserial_no\*O"
This option is required to pull a zone.  The
\*Vserial_no\*O argument should be set to the current serial number of
the SOA record for the zone \*Vzone_to_transfer\*O.  If
\*VIserial_no\*O is set to 0, the zone is always pulled.
.LI "\*L-d \*Vdebug_level\*O"
The \*Vdebug_level\*O argument sets the debug level and determines the amount of
debug information to be displayed.
.LI "\*L-l \*Vdebug_log_file\*O"
The \*Vdebug_log_file\*O argument specifies the file that will contain any
debug messages from the zone pull.
.LI "\*L-t \*Vtrace_file\*O"
The \*Vtrace_file\*O argument specifies the file that
will contain a trace from the zone pull.
.LI "\*L-p \*Vport\*O"
The \*Vport\*O argument specifies the port that will be used instead of the
default name server port listed in
\*L/etc/services\*O.
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
This option must be used when the
\*Lnamed\*O daemon is running in the network safe mode.  It indicates that the
zone pull must be authenticated.
.LI "\*L-a  \*Vauth_type.auth_ver\*O"
This option must be used if the \*Lnamed\*O daemon is running in the network
safe mode.  The \*Vauth_type\*O
argument indicates what type of authentication to use
and the \*Vauth_ver\*O argument indicates what version of the
authentication type to use.  Currently, the \*Vauth_type\*O
must be ``kerberos'' and the auth_ver must be ``one.''
.LI "\*Vservers...\*O"
The servers argument is a list of Internet addresses
from which to pull a zone.  If the first host cannot be
reached, the \*Lnamed\*O
transfer daemon will try to pull the zone from the next host listed.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "named-xfer" "named transfer daemon"
The \*Lnamed\*O transfer daemon,
\*L/usr/sbin/named-xfer\*O, is a server that
is usually run by the \*Lnamed\*O daemon, \*L/usr/sbin/named\*O,
but it can also be run manually with the given arguments.  The
\*Lnamed\*O transfer daemon runs on a BIND secondary server and pulls
BIND zones from a primary server.
This daemon is not run by default, nor can it be started up from
.MS inetd 8 .
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lnamed\*O(8)
.PP
Files: \*Lservices\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
