.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ncheck.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:39:06 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" 
.\"	@(#)ncheck.8	6.3 (Berkeley) 6/24/90
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.TH ncheck 8
.SH NAME
\*Lncheck\*O \- generate names from i-numbers
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/ncheck\*O [\*L\-i\*O \*Vnumbers\*O] [\*L\-asm\*O] \*Vfile systems\*O \&...
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP 
.iX "ncheck command"
For most normal file system maintenance, the \*Lfsck\*O command
makes the \*Lncheck\*O command obsolete.  
The \*Lncheck\*O command with no options generates a
list of all files on every specified file system.  The list includes the
pathname and the corresponding i-number of each file.
A \*L/.\*O (slash dot) follows the name of each directory file.
.PP
Issuing the command with the \*L\-i\*O \*Vnumbers\*O
option reduces the report to only those files with i-numbers \*Vnumbers\*O.
Issuing the command with the \*L\-a\*O option
allows for the printing of the names \*L\&.\*O (dot) and
\*L\&.\&.\*O (dot dot) which are ordinarily suppressed.
Issuing the command with the \*L\-s\*O option reduces the report to 
special files and files with set-user-ID mode.  This flag
is intended to discover concealed violations of security policy.
.PP 
Since the report is generated in an order that is not particularly
useful, you should probably sort it prior to reading it.
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L\-a\*O"
Allows printing of the names \*L.\*O (dot) and \*L..\*O (dot dot), which
are ordinarily suppressed.
.LI "\*L\-i\*O \*Vnumbers\*O"
Reduces the report to only those files with i-numbers \*Vnumbers\*O.
.LI "\*L\-m\*O"
Allows printing of the mode, UID, and GID of files.  This flag
takes effect only if either the \*L\-i\*O or the \*L\-s\*O
flag is also specified on the command line.
.LI "\*L\-s\*O"
Reduces the report to special files and files with set-user-ID mode.
.LE 
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP 
When the filesystem structure is improper,
\*L??\*O (question mark question mark) denotes the parent of
a parentless file.  A pathname beginning with \*L\&...\*O
(dot dot dot) denotes a loop.
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/ncheck\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lsort\*O(1), \*Lfsck\*O(8), \*Licheck\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
