.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: netsetup.8,v $ $Revision: 3.3.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/10 17:40:42 $
.\"
.TH netsetup 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lnetsetup\*O \- Network setup program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/netsetup\*O
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "netsetup command"
.iX "local area network" "setting up"
The \*Lnetsetup\*O utility allows you to configure the networking software
on your system.
.PP
To run \*Lnetsetup\*O, enter the following command and then answer the
questions:
.iS
# \*Lnetsetup
.iE
.PP
You must know your Internet Protocol (IP) address. If
your network uses subnet routing, you must know the subnet mask for your network.
The network manager should be able to provide you with the
information that you need.
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.RS 5
If your network uses subnet routing,
remember to enter the subnet number as part of the host number.
.sp 6p
.RE
.PP
After the \*Lnetsetup\*O command completes, the network services
on the system can be restarted manually with the following command:
.iS
# /usr/sbin/rcinet restart
.iE
.PP
Before you restart the network services with the preceding command, warn the
users that the network services on the system are being removed.
File systems that were not mounted using the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file or
the \*Lautomount\*O command must be unmounted with the \*Lunmount\*O command.
You must remount these file systems using the \*Lmount\*O command after
the network is started on your system.
.PP
Alternatively, you can reboot the system with the following command:
.iS
# \*L/usr/sbin/shutdown \-r now
.iE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L/etc/hosts\*O"
Specifies the host name file.
.LI "\*L/etc/rc.config\*O"
Specifies the environment variables that define the network configuration
on your system.
.LI "\*L/etc/hosts.equiv\*O"
Specifies the trusted hosts file.
.LI "\*L/etc/networks\*O"
Specifies the network name file.
.LI "\*L/etc/gateways\*O"
Specifies Internet routing information.
.LI "\*L/etc/routes\*O"
Specifies Internet routing information.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lmount\*O(8), \*Lrcinet\*O(8)
.PP
Files: \*Lgateways\*O(4), \*Lhosts\*O(4), \*Lhosts.equiv\*O(4),
\*Lnetworks\*O(4), \*Lroutes\*O(4)
.PP
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O,
\*ENetwork and Communications Overview\*O
...\"
...\" This source file has been processed by the osf_build_manpages
...\" script.  Contact dlibrary@ravine if you need more information.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
