.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: nfsd.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/20 00:15:59 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1989 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)nfsd.8	5.6 (Berkeley) 6/24/90
.\" 
.TH nfsd 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lnfsd\*O \- The remote NFS compatible server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.\" Removed per Larry Cohen 9/4/91 - BAC
.\"\*Lnfsd\*O [\*Vmsk mtch numprocs\*O]
\*L/usr/sbin/nfsd\*O [\*Vnumprocs\*O]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "nfsd"
.iX "NFS"
The \*Lnfsd\*O daemon
runs on a server machine to service
NFS requests from client machines.
At least one \*Lnfsd\*O
must be running for a machine to operate as a server.
.PP
.\"Removed Digital specific reference.
.\" The following information is specific to Digital.
Files that are larger than 2 gigabytes are exported as 2 gigabyte
files, because NFS Version 2 is a 32-bit protocol. Therefore, the size
and offset fields are 32-bit quantities (on Alpha AXP UFS they are 64-bit
quantities). Use caution when accessing files larger than 2 gigabytes
from NFS clients.
.\"End Digital specific information. 
.VL
.\" Removed per Larry Cohen 9/4/91 - BAC
.\".LI "\*Vmsk mtch\*O"
.\"These arguments permit restriction of NFS services
.\"to a subset of the host addresses. The
.\"\*Vmsk\*O
.\"and
.\"\*Vmtch\*O
.\"are applied to the client host address as follows:
.\".iS
.\"If ((
.\"\*Vhost_address\*O
.\"&
.\"\*Vmsk\*O
.\") ==
.\"\*Vmtch\*O
.\")
.\"   - service the client request
.\"else
.\"   - drop the request
.\".iE
.LI "\*Vnumprocs"
Specifies how many servers to fork off.
If \*Vnumprocs\*O is not specified, it defaults to 1.
.LE
.\" Removed per Larry Cohen 9/4/91 - BAC
.\".SH CAUTIONS
.\".PP 
.\"The client host address restrictions specified here are unrelated to the
.\"mount restrictions specified in \*L/etc/exports\*O for \*Lmountd\*O(8).
.\".PP 
.\"A server should typically run enough daemons to handle the maximum level 
.\"of concurrency from its clients, typically 4 to 6.
.\".PP
.\"The \*Lnfsd\*O
.\"daemon listens for service requests at the port indicated in the
.\"NFS server specification; see \*VNetwork File System Protocol Specification, 
.\"RFC1094.\*O
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\" .AL
.\" Removed per Larry Cohen 9/4/91 - BAC
.\".LI
.\"In the following example, \*L4\*O daemons are run that accept requests from any
.\"client on subnet \*L131.104.48\*O:
.\".iS
.\"nfsd  255.255.255.0      131.104.48.0     4
.\".iE
.\".LI
.\"In the following example, \*L6\*O daemons are run that accept requests
.\"from clients with addresses in the range \*L131.104.0.\*Vn\*O
.\"to \*L131.104.15.\*Vn\*O:
.\".iS
.\"nfsd  255.255.240.0      131.104.0.0       6
.\".iE
.\" 
.\" Digital-specific information - Begin
.\" Took out per request Tim Burke 8/17/93
.\".LI
.\" In the following example, \*L4\*O daemons are run that accept requests
.\" from any client:
.\" .iS
.\" nfsd    0    0    4
.\" .iE
.\" .LI
In the following example, \*L4\*O daemons are run that accept requests
from any client:
.iS
nfsd 4
.iE
.\" .LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/nfsd\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lnfsstat\*O(8)
.PP
Daemons:  \*Lmountd\*O(8), \*Lportmap\*O(8)
.PP
Functions:  \*Lnfssvc\*O(2)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
