.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: nfsiod.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/03 20:53:33 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1989 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)nfsiod.8	5.5 (Berkeley) 6/24/90
.\" 
.TH nfsiod 8
.SH NAME
\*Lnfsiod\*O, \*Lbiod\*O \- The local NFS compatible asynchronous I/O server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lnfsiod\*O
[
\*Vnumdaemons\*O
]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "nfsiod"
.iX "NFS"
.\"Replaced with the following for Sterling: T. Wolklin
The \*Lnfsiod\*O daemon runs on an NFS compatible client machine to
service asynchronous I/O requests to its server.
The \*Lnfsiod\*O daemons improve performance of both NFS reads and
writes. Both try to enlist the aid of an idle \*Lnfsiod\*O daemon.
If none is available, then the process itself issues the request to the
server and waits for the reply.
.PP
The optimum number of \*Lnfsiod\*O daemons to run depends on many
variables, such as how quickly the client will be writing, how
many files will be accessed simultaneously, and the behaviour of the NFS
server. For use with a DEC OSF/1 server, 7
is a good number of \*Lnfsiod\*O daemons for most systems.
.PP
When reading, if the client believes the process is reading a file
sequentially, it requests an \*Lnfsiod\*O daemon to read a block ahead
of what the process is currently requesting.  If the readahead completes
before the process asks for that block, then the subsequent read system
call for that data completes immediately and does not have to wait for
the NFS request to complete.  Read ahead will be triggered again so the
read may find that next block available as well.
.PP
When writing a file, the client takes the process's data, passes the
request to an \*Lnfsiod\*O daemon and immediately returns to the
process.  If the process is writing data faster than the network or
server can process, then eventually all the \*Lnfsiod\*O daemons
become busy and the process has to handle a NFS write itself.
This means the process has to wait
until the server finishes the write.  For DEC OSF/1 servers, the
NFS block size is 8Kb and UFS tries to cluster I/O 64Kbs at a time.  If
the client is running with 7 \*Lnfsiod\*O daemons then 8 write requests
can be in progress at once.  This allows the client and server to write
data 64Kbs at a time and is the reason for recommending 7 \*Lnfsiod\*O
daemons.
.\"The
.\"\*Lnfsiod\*O
.\"daemon runs on an NFS compatible
.\"client machine to service asynchronous I/O requests to its server.
.\"It improves performance, but is not required for correct operation.
.\"The
.\"\*Vnumdaemons\*O
.\"option
.\"defines how many
.\"\*Lnfsiod\*O
.\"daemons to start;
.\"if unspecified, only a single daemon will be started.
.\"A client should typically run enough daemons to handle
.\"their maximum level of concurrency,
.\"typically 4 to 6.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/nfsiod\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\" Although nfsstat is in /usr/bin, it is considered a
.\" system admin command. It is also cross-referenced to section 8
.\" in other manpages.
.\"Commands: \*Lnfsstat\*O(1)
Commands: \*Lnfsstat\*O(8)
.PP
Daemons: \*Lasync_daemon\*O(2), \*Lmountd\*O(8), \*Lportmap\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
