.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: nfslogsum.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/05 19:37:48 $
.\"
.TH nfslogsum 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lnfslogsum\*O \- Summarize \*Lnfswatch\*O log file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.iX "nfslogsum"
.iX "NFS" "creating a summary of nfswatch log file"
.iX "nfswatch" "creating a summary of log file"
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/nfslogsum\*O [\*L-n\*O] [\*L-v\*O] [\*Vlogfile\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Directs \*Lnfslogsum\*O to read only the first \*Vn\*O entries in the log file.
This is useful for summarizing log files in cumulative chunks.
.LI "\*L-v\*O"
Produces a verbose summary of the log file.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lnfslogsum\*O command summarizes log files produced by the \*Lnfswatch\*O
program. By default the log file \*Lnfswatch.log\*O is summarized;
an alternate log file can be specified on the command line.
.PP
Each \*Lnfswatch\*O log file may contain one or more log sessions,
each indicated by a header which is printed when logging is turned on.
For each log session, \*Lnfslogsum\*O
tallies up the interval packet totals and prints out a one-page summary
of the log session.
Total packets and percentages are tabulated for each category and
displayed.
.PP
In addition to the summary information printed as described above,
a summary of how many calls to each NFS procedure were made on each
file system and individual file will be printed.
This summary information is divided into three sections of six columns
each. The columns are headed by the names of the following NFS procedures:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LNULLPROC\*O"
Does nothing. This procedure is provided to allow server response testing and
timing.
.LI "\*LGETATTR\*O"
Gets the file attributes (type, mode, number of links, owner's uid, owner's gid,
size, access, modification and change times, and others).
This procedure is used by the \*Lstat\*O(2) system call, as well as several
others.
.LI "\*LSETATTR\*O"
Sets the file attributes  (mode, owner's uid, owner's gid, size in bytes,
access and modification times). This procedure is used by system calls such as
\*Lchmod\*O(2), \*Lchown\*O(2), and \*Ltruncate\*O(2).
.LI "\*LGETROOT\*O"
Gets the file system root. This procedure is obsolete,
and has been replaced by a \*LMOUNT\*O protocol procedure.
.LI "\*LLOOKUP\*O"
Looks up the file name. This procedure is used to obtain an initial file handle
for use in current and future requests on that file, and is used by many
different system calls.
.LI "\*LREADLINK\*O"
Reads from the symbolic link. This procedure is used by the \*Lreadlink\*O
system call and by the kernel.
.LI "\*LREAD\*O"
Reads data from the file. This procedure is used by the \*Lread\*O(2) system
call.
.LI "\*LWCACHE\*O"
Writes to the cache. Unused in the current NFS protocol revision.
.LI "\*LWRITE\*O"
Writes data to a file. This procedure is used by the \*Lwrite\*O(2) system
call.
.LI "\*LCREATE\*O"
Creates a file. This procedure is used by the \*Lcreat\*O(2) and \*Lopen\*O(2)
system calls.
.LI "\*LREMOVE\*O"
Removes a file. This procedure is used by the \*Lunlink\*O(2) system call.
.LI "\*LRENAME\*O"
Renames a file. This procedure is used by the \*Lrename\*O system call.
.LI "\*LLINK\*O"
Creates a link to the file. This procedure is used by the \*Llink'\*O(2)
system call.
.LI "\*LSYMLINK\*O"
Creates a symbolic link to the file. This procedure is used by the
\*Lsymlink\*O(2) system call.
.LI "\*LMKDIR\*O"
Creates a directory. This procedure is used by the \*Lmkdir\*O(2) system call.
.LI "\*LRMDIR\*O"
Removes a directory. This procedure is used by the \*Lrmdir\*O(2) system call.
.LI "\*LREADDIR\*O"
Reads entries from a directory. Generally only one \*LREADDIR\*O call is needed
per directory, since a variable number of entries can be returned.
.LI "\*LSTATFS\*O"
Gets file system attributes (transfer size, block size, blocks in use, blocks
free). This procedure is used by the \*Lstatfs\*O(2) system call.
.LE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The \*Lnfslogsum\*O utility is sensitive to the format of the log file produced
by \*Lnfswatch\*O. Do not edit or change the log file before using it as input
to \*Lnfslogsum\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lnfswatch\*O(8), \*Ltcpdump\*O(8), \*Lpacketfilter\*O(7), \*Lbpf\*O(7)
.\".SH AUTHOR
.\"David A. Curry
.\".br
.\"Purdue University
.\".br
.\"Engineering Computer Network
.\".br
.\"1285 Electrical Engineering Building
.\".br
.\"West Lafayette, \s-1IN\s0 47907-1285
.\".br
.\"davy@ecn.purdue.edu
.EQ
delim off
.EN
