.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" 
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: nfsstat.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.10 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/19 13:38:26 $
.\" 
.TH nfsstat 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lnfsstat\*O\*O \- Network File System statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/bin/nfsstat\*O [\*L-i \*Vinterval\*O] [\*L-csnrz\*O] [\*Vsystem\*O] [\*Vcorefile\*O]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "nfsstat command" "display network statistics"
.iX "NFS statistics"  "display"
.iX "statistics of NFS"  "display"
The \*Lnfsstat\*O command displays statistical information about the
Network File System (NFS) and
Remote Procedure Call (RPC) interfaces in the kernel.
It can also be used to reinitialize this information.
If no options are given, \*Lnfsstat\*O
defaults to all options set to on except the \*L-z\*O option.
.PP
The \*Vsystem\*O argument specifies the file containing the system's name
list.
Otherwise, \*L/vmunix\*O is used.
.PP
The \*Vcorefile\*O argument tells \*Lnfsstat\*O where to look for
\*Vcorefile\*O.  Otherwise, \*L/dev/kmem\*O is used.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4
.LI "\*L-i \*Vinterval\*O"
Displays summary information at the specified interval.
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Displays client information.
The client side NFS and RPC information will be printed.
This option can be combined with the \*L-n\*O
and \*L-r\*O options to print client NFS or client RPC information only.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Displays server information.  The server side NFS and RPC information
will be printed.
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Displays NFS information.
NFS information for both the client and server side will be printed.
Can be combined with the \*L-c\*O
and \*L-s\*O options to print client or server NFS information only.
.LI "\*L-r\*O"
Displays RPC information. RPC information for both client and server side
will be printed.  Can be combined with the \*L-c\*O and
\*L-s\*O options to print client or server RPC information only.
.LI "\*L-z\*O"
Reinitializes statistics.
.\" Replacing the following lines with text supplied in QAR 7068.
.\" Can be combined with any of the above options to reset
.\" particular sets of statistics to zero after printing them.
.\" The user must have write permission on
.\" \*L/dev/kmem\*O to use this option.
Used to set NFS client/server or RPC client/server statistics to zero.
You must be logged in as superuser to use this command.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 10m
.LI "\*L/dev/kmem\*O"
Specifies the \*L/vmunix\*O system name list.
.LI "\*L/dev/kmem\*O"
Specifies the kernel memory.
.LE
.\".SH RELATED INFORMATION
.\".PP
.\"None
.EQ
delim off
.EN
