.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: nfssetup.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 14:53:25 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)nfssetup.8nfs 9.1 4/15/91
.\" Written by liza sanford-crane  (7/30/86)
.\"
.TH nfssetup 8
.SH NAME
nfssetup \- set up the network file system (NFS)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/nfssetup\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "nfssetup command"
.iX "NFS" "setting up"
\*Lnfssetup\*O is an interactive facility that allows you to set up
your system as an NFS server, an NFS client, or both.  It also
allows you to modify NFS on your system.  Note that your
system's networking software
must be configured and running before you set up NFS.
.\" Commented out because locking not supported in Tin -- nr
.\"The
.\"\*Lnfssetup\*O
.\"command allows you to either enable or disable the NFS locking service.
.\".PP
Depending on the information you provide to \*Lnfssetup\*O, it
appends entries to the \*L/etc/exports\*O file, \*L/etc/fstab\*O file,
or both.
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.RS 5
To remove entries from the \*L/etc/exports\*O or \*L/etc/fstab\*O you
must edit them by hand. The \*Lnfssetup\*O command only appends
entries to these files.
.sp 6p
.RE
.PP
You can run \*Lnfssetup\*O while the system is in multiuser mode.
To invoke \*Lnfssetup\*O, type the following and then answer the questions:
.oS
# /usr/sbin/nfssetup
.oE
When \*Lnfssetup\*O has completed, you can
either reboot the system to start the
NFS daemons and mount the remote file systems that you
want to access, or issue the following commands from the
superuser prompt (#):
.oS
# /sbin/init.d/nfs start
# mount \-a \-t nfs
.oE
.\".PP
.\" Commented out because DMS not supported in Tin -- nr
.\"If you use
.\"\*Ldms\*O
.\"to set up your system as a diskless server before running
.\"\*Lnfssetup\*O ,
.\"\*Ldms\*O
.\"will automatically call the
.\"\*Lnfssetup\*O
.\"utility to set up a default NFS server environment.
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/etc/exports\*O
.br
\*L/etc/fstab\*O
.br
\*L/etc/rc.config\*O
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.\"\*Ldms\*O(8),
\*Lmountd\*O(8), \*Lnfsd\*O(8), \*Lnfsiod\*O(8)
.\"\*Lrwalld\*O(8c)
.br
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
