.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: nfswatch.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/05 19:37:41 $
.\"
.TH nfswatch 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lnfswatch\*O \- Monitor an NFS server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.iX "nfswatch"
.iX "NFS" "monitoring"
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/nfswatch\*O [\*Voptions\*O]
.\"[\*L-dst \*Vdsthost\*O] [\*L-src \*Vsrchost\*O]
.\".nL
.\"[\*L-server \*Vserverhost\*O] [\*L-all\*O] [\*L-dev \*Vdevice\*O]
.\".nL
.\"[\*L-allif\*O] [\*L-f \*Vfilelist\*O] [\*L-lf \*Vlogfile\*O] [\*L-sf \*Vsnapfile\*O]
.\".nL
.\"[\*L-map \*Vmapfile\*O] [\*L-T \*Vmaxtime\*O] [\*L-t \*Vtimeout\*O] [\*L-fs\*O]
.\".nL
.\"[\*L-if\*O] [\*L-auth\*O] [\*L-procs\*O] [\*L-clients\*O] [\*L-usage \*O] [\*L-l\*O] [\*L-bg\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
The \*Lnfswatch\*O command can usually be run without arguments and will
produce useful results. However, for those occasions when the defaults are
not sufficient, the following options are provided:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-dst \*Vdsthost\*O"
Monitors packets destined for \*Vdsthost\*O instead of the local host.
.LI "\*L-src \*Vsrchost\*O"
Restricts packets being counted to those sent by
\*Vsrchost\*O.
.LI "\*L-server \*Vserverhost\*O"
Restricts packets being counted to those sent to or from
\*Vserverhost\*O.
.LI "\*L-all\*O"
Specifies to monitor packets to and from all NFS servers on the local network.
.LI "\*L-dev \*Vdevice\*O"
Specifies the packet filter interface from which to read packets.
You can specify interfaces either by their actual names (such as ln0) or by
their generic packet filter interface names (pf\*Vn\*O, where \*Vn\*O is an
integer). By default, pf0 (the first configured interface that supports the
packet filter) is used.
.LI "\*L-allif\*O"
Reads packets from all configured network interfaces,
instead of a single device.
The first ten
\*Lpf\*O devices (0-9) are checked, and if configured, will be monitored.
.LI "\*L-f \*Vfilelist\*O"
Reads a list of file names (one per line) from
\*Vfilelist\*O and monitors the NFS traffic to these files in addition to the
normal monitoring of exported file systems.
.LI "\*L-lf \*Vlogfile\*O"
When logging, writes information to the file
\*Vlogfile\*O. The default is \*Lnfswatch.log\*O.
.LI "\*L-sf \*Vsnapfile\*O"
Writes snapshots to the file
\*Vsnapfile\*O. The default is \*Lnfswatch.snap\*O.
.LI "\*L-map \*Vmapfile\*O"
Reads a list of device names and file system names (one pair per line) from
\*Vmapfile\*O and translates from one to the other when displaying file system
names.
.LI "\*L-T \*Vmaxtime\*O"
Terminates execution after running for \*Vmaxtime\*O seconds.
This is primarily for use with the \*L-bg\*O option.
.LI "\*L-t \*Vtimeout\*O"
Sets the cycle time (interval length) to
\*Vtimeout\*O seconds. The default is 10.
The cycle time may also be adjusted from the command prompt.
.LI "\*L-fs\*O"
Displays the file system NFS monitoring data instead of the individual
file data.
This option is only meaningful if the
\*L-f \*Vfilelist\*O option was specified.
The display may also be controlled from the command prompt.
.LI "\*L-if\*O"
Displays the individual file NFS monitoring data instead of the file
system data. This option is only meaningful if the
\*L-f \*Vfilelist\*O option was specified.
The display may also be controlled from the command prompt.
.LI "\*L-auth\*O"
Displays statistics on authentication packets (individual users).
.LI "\*L-procs\*O"
Displays statistics on NFS procedures (RPC calls) instead of
per-file or per-file system data.
.LI "\*L-client\*O"
Displays statistics on NFS client operation rates instead of
per-file or per-filesystem data.
.LI "\*L-usage\*O"
Sets file system, procedure, or client
display to be sorted in declining order of percent usage.
By default, the display is sorted alphabetically.
This may also be toggled from the command prompt.
.LI "\*L-l\*O"
Turns on logging at startup time.
Logging is turned off by default,
but may be enabled from the command prompt.
.LI "\*L-bg\*O"
Starts as a daemon, running in the background.
No screen updates will be performed; all data will be written to the log file
only. When started with this option, \*Lnfswatch\*O
will print the process id of the daemon process.
To terminate \*Lnfswatch\*O, send the process a SIGTERM signal, or use the
\*L-T\*O option to set the maximum execution time.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lnfswatch\*O program monitors all incoming network traffic to an NFS file
server and divides it into several categories.
The number and percentage of packets received in each category is
displayed on the screen in a continuously updated display.
The screen is updated every ten seconds by default;
this time period is called an interval.
.PP
Your kernel must be configured with the packetfilter option. (See
\*Lpacketfilter\*O(7).)
After kernel configuration,
any user can invoke \*Lnfswatch\*O once the superuser has enabled
promiscuous-mode operation using the \*Lpfconfig\*O command
.\" (8).
.PP
By default, \*Lnfswatch\*O
monitors all packets destined for the current host.
An alternate destination host to watch for may be specified using the
\*L-dst\*O argument.
If a source host is specified with the
\*L-src\*O
argument,
then only packets arriving at the destination host which were sent by the
source host are monitored.
Traffic between a specific server and its clients may be watched by specifying
the name of the server with the
\*L-server\*O argument.  If the \*L-all\*O argument is given,
then all NFS traffic on the network is monitored.
It is usually desirable to specify the \*L-all\*O
option whenever using the
.nL
\*L-server\*O
option.
.PP
The \*Lnfswatch\*O screen is divided into the following three parts:
.ML
.LI
The first part, at the top of the screen, is made up of three lines.
The first line displays the name of the host being monitored, the current
date and time, and the time elapsed since the start of monitoring.
.IP
The second line displays the total number of packets received during
the most recent interval.
.IP
The third line displays the total number of
packets received since monitoring started.
.IP
The second and third lines display three
numbers each: the total number of packets on the network,
the total number of packets received by the destination host (possibly
subject to being only from the specified source host),
and the number of packets dropped by the monitoring interface due to
buffer space limitations.
Dropped packets are not included in the packet monitoring totals.
.LI
The second part of the screen divides the received packets into 16
categories.
Each category is displayed with three numbers:
.ML
.LI
The number of packets received this interval.
.LI
The percentage this represents of all packets received by the host
during this interval.
.LI
The total number of packets received since monitoring started.
.IP
The packet categories are not mutually exclusive;
some packets may be counted in more than one category (for example,
NFS packets are also UDP packets).
.IP
The categories in this section and their meanings are:
.VL 4m
.LI "ND Read"
Sun Network Disk read requests.
Only servers which serve clients running SunOS 3.5 or less should
display nonzero counts in this section.
This field is only counted when
\*Lnfswatch\*O
is run on a SunOS 4.x system; other versions of
\*Lnfswatch\*O
count these packets as ``other.''
.LI "ND Write"
Sun Network Disk write requests.
Only servers which serve clients running SunOS 3.5 or less should
display nonzero counts in this section.
This field is only counted when
\*Lnfswatch\*O
is run on a SunOS 4.x system; other versions of
\*Lnfswatch\*O
count these packets as ``other.''
.LI "NFS Read"
NFS requests which primarily result in a file system read being performed
(read file, read directory, and so on)
.LI "NFS Write"
NFS requests which primarily result in a file system write being performed
(write file, rename file, create file, delete file, and so on).
.LI "NFS Mount"
NFS mount requests.
.LI "YP/NIS/NIS+"
Sun NIS (Yellow Pages) and NIS+ requests.
.LI "RPC Authorization"
All RPC reply packets fall into this category,
because RPC replies do not contain the protocol number,
and thus cannot be classified as anything else.
(If the
.nL
\*L-all\*O argument is given,
then you will see all the RPC replies on the network in this category.)
.LI "Other RPC Packets"
All RPC requests which do not fall into one of the above categories.
.LI "TCP Packets"
Packets sent using the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP).
.LI "UDP Packets"
Packets sent using the User Datagram Protocol (UDP).
.LI "ICMP Packets"
Packets sent using the Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP).
.LI "Routing Control"
Routing Information Protocol (RIP) packets.
.LI "Address Resolution"
Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) packets.
These packets are not counted on System V Release 4 systems (except for
SunOS 5.x), due to limitations of the
\*Ldlpi\*O(7) interface.
.LI "Reverse Addr Resol"
Reverse Address Resolution Protocol (RARP) packets.
These packets are not counted on System V Release 4 systems (except for
SunOS 5.x), due to limitations of the
\*Ldlpi\*O(7) interface.
.LI "Ethernet/FDDI Bdcst"
Ethernet (or FDDI) broadcast packets.
These packets are destined for and received by all hosts on the local
network.
These packets are not counted on System V Release 4 systems (except for
SunOS 5.x), due to limitations of the
\*Ldlpi\*O(7) interface.
.LI "Other Packets"
A catch-all for any packets not counted in any of the above
categories.
.LE
.LE
.LI
The third part of the display shows the mounted file systems exported by the
file server for mounting through NFS.
If \*Lnfswatch\*O is monitoring the same host it is being run on,
these file systems are listed by path name.
Otherwise, the program attempts to decode the server's major and minor device
numbers for the file system, and displays them in parentheses.
(If the \*L-all\*O argument is given, the name of the server is also shown.)
With each file system, three numbers are displayed:
.ML
.LI
The number of NFS requests for this file system received during the
interval.
.LI
The percentage this represents of all NFS requests received by the
host.
.LI
The total number of NFS requests for this file system received since
monitoring started. Up to 256 file systems will be monitored by \*Lnfswatch\*O
and recorded in the log file, but only as many as will fit (2 * (LINES - 16))
will  be displayed on the screen.
.LE
.IP
If the \*L-map \*Vmapfile\*O option is specified, \*Lnfswatch\*O
will read pairs of file system device specifications (as described above) and
the proper names of the file systems from \*Vmapfile\*O.
Each line should contain a string representing what \*Lnfswatch\*O would
normally print, and then separated from that by whitespace, the name
that is preferred. For example:
.oS
myhost(7,24)\ \ \ \ \ /homedirs
.oE
If the \*L-f \*Vfilelist\*O option is specified,
a list of file names (one per line) is read from
\*Vfilelist\*O, and the traffic to these individual files is also monitored.
The files must reside in file systems exported by the file server.
When this option is specified,
the third section of the screen will display counters for these files,
instead of for the mounted file systems.
Up to 256 individual files will be monitored by
\*Lnfswatch\*O and recorded in the log file,
but only as many as will fit (2 * (LINES - 16)) will
be displayed on the screen.
.IP
If the \*L-procs\*O option is specified, instead of showing per-file or
per-file system statistics, \*Lnfswatch\*O
shows the frequency of each NFS procedure (RPC call) (or as many as will
fit on the screen).
For each procedure, some timing statistics are also displayed; these include
the number of completed operations (request and response seen) during the
interval, the average response time during the interval, the standard
deviation from the average during the interval, and the maximum response time
over all time.
.IP
If the \*L-clients\*O option is specified, instead of showing per-file or
per-file system statistics, \*Lnfswatch\*O
shows the operation rate of each NFS client of the specified
server or servers (or as many as will fit on the screen).
.IP
It should be noted here that only NFS requests, made by client machines,
are counted in the NFS packet monitoring area. The NFS traffic generated
by the server in response to these requests is not counted.
.IP
If the \*L-auth\*O option is specified, the display will show packet counts
divided up by user name (or user id, if the login name is not in the local
password file). This information is decoded from the AUTH_UNIX authentication
part of each RPC packet. The \*Lnfswatch\*O utility only decodes AUTH_UNIX
authenticators, the other types of
authentication (for example, AUTH_DES) are lumped into a single bucket for each
authentication type.
.LE
.SH LOGFILE
.PP
When logging is on, \*Lnfswatch\*O
writes one entry to the log file each interval.
The information printed to the log file is easily readable,
and basically contains a copy of all information on the screen.
Additionally, any NFS traffic to file systems or individual files which was not
printed on the screen (due to space limitations) is printed in the log file.
Finally, in the log file, the NFS traffic to file systems and individual files
is further broken down into counts of how many times each specific NFS
procedure was called.
.PP
The information in the \*Lnfswatch\*O log file can be summarized easily using
the \*Lnfslogsum\*O
.\" (8)
program.
.SH COMMANDS
.PP
The \*Lnfswatch\*O utility also allows several commands to be entered at its
prompt during execution. The prompt is displayed on the last line of the screen.
For most commands, feedback describing the effect of the command is printed on
the same line as the prompt.
The commands are:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L^L\*O"
Clears and redraws the screen.
.LI "\*La\*O"
Switches the display to show statistics on individual users.
.LI "\*Lc\*O"
Switches the display to show statistics on
NFS client hosts instead of per-file or
per-filesystem information.
.LI "\*Lf\*O"
Toggles the display of mounted file systems and the display of individual files
in the NFS packet monitoring area.
This command is only meaningful if the
\*L-f \*Vfilelist\*O option was specified on the command line.
(If the display is showing NFS procedures or clients,
then this command switches the display to show file systems.)
.LI "\*Lp\*O"
Switches the display to show statistics on NFS procedures instead of per-file or
per-filesystem information.
.LI "\*Ll\*O"
Toggles the logging feature. If logging is off it is started;
if logging is on, it is turned off.
.LI "\*Ln\*O"
Toggles display of host names or host numbers in client mode.
By default, client mode displays host names.
However, this may not be sufficient for determining the names of unknown
remote hosts, since domain names are not displayed.
This command tells \*Lnfswatch\*O to display host numbers instead, enabling
each host to be uniquely identified.
.LI "\*Ls\*O"
Takes a snapshot of the current screen and saves it to a file.
This is useful to record occasional copies of the data when the
log file is not needed.
.LI "\*Lu\*O"
Toggles the sort key for the display of mounted file systems in the
NFS packet monitoring area. By default, these are sorted by file system name,
but they can also be sorted in declining order of percent usage.
.LI "\*L-\*O"
Decreases the cycle time (interval length) by ten seconds.
This takes effect after the next screen update.
.LI "\*L+\*O"
Increases the cycle time (interval length) by ten seconds.
This takes effect after the next screen update.
.LI "\*L<\*O"
Decreases the cycle time (interval length) by one second.
This takes effect after the next screen update.
.LI "\*L>\*O"
Increases the cycle time (interval length) by one second.
This takes effect after the next screen update.
.LI "\*L]\*O"
Scrolls forward through the bottom part of the display, if there
are files/file systems/clients/procedures not being displayed
due to lack of space.
.LI "\*L[\*O"
Scrolls backward.
.LI "\*Lq\*O"
Exits \*Lnfswatch\*O. Using the interrupt key will also cause
\*Lnfswatch\*O to exit.
.LE
.PP
Typing any other character will cause a help screen to be displayed.
.\".SH BUGS
.\".PP
.\"To monitor NFS traffic to files and file systems, \*Lnfswatch\*O
.\"must extract information from the NFS file handle.
.\"The file handle is a server-specific item, and its contents vary from vendor to
.\"vendor and operating system to operating system.
.\"Unfortunately, there is no machine-independent way to extract information from
.\"a file handle. \*Lnfswatch\*O understands the file handle format used by SunOS
.\"4.1 SPARC and ULTRIX and DEC OSF/1 systems (depending on how it was compiled);
.\"the program will have to be modified to understand other formats.
.\".PP
.\"\*Lnfswatch\*O uses the Snoop (\*Vsnoop\*O(7)) network monitoring protocol
.\"under Irix 4.\*Vx\*O,
.\"the Network Interface Tap (\*Vnit\*O(4)) under SunOS 4.\*Vx\*O,
.\"the Data Link Provider Interface (\*Vdlpi\*O(7) under SunOS 5.\*Vx\*O
.\"(Solaris 2.\*Vx\*O) and System V Release 4,
.\"and the Packet Filter (\*Vpacketfilter\*O(7)) under ULTRIX 4.x and DEC OSF/1.
.\"To run on other systems,
.\"code will have to be written to read packets from the network in
.\"promiscuous mode.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Ltcpdump\*O(8),
\*Lnfslogsum\*O(8),
\*Lpacketfilter\*O(7),
\*Lbpf\*O(7),
\*Lpfstat\*O(1),
\*Lpfconfig\*O(8)
.\".SH AUTHORS
.\"David A. Curry
.\".br
.\"Purdue University
.\".br
.\"Engineering Computer Network
.\".br
.\"1285 Electrical Engineering Building
.\".br
.\"West Lafayette, IN 47907-1285
.\".br
.\"davy@ecn.purdue.edu
.\".PP
.\"Jeffrey C. Mogul
.\".br
.\"Digital Equipment Corporation
.\".br
.\"Western Research Laboratory
.\".br
.\"250 University Avenue
.\".br
.\"Palo Alto, CA 94301
.\".br
.\"mogul@decwrl.dec.com
.EQ
delim off
.EN
