.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.TH nissetup 8
.SH NAME
.PP
nissetup, ypsetup \- Sets up the Network Information Service (NIS) environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/nissetup\*O
\*L/usr/sbin/ypsetup\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "nissetup command"
.iX "ypsetup command"
.iX "Network Information Service (NIS)" "svcorder file and"
.iX "NIS environment" "setting up"
.PP
The \*Lnissetup (formerly \*Lypsetup\*O) script configures and runs NIS on your
system. You can use \*Lnissetup\*O to initially set up your
NIS configuration or to change your current NIS configuration.
NIS provides a distributed data lookup service for sharing
data among networked systems.
.PP
Before running \*Lnissetup\*O, make sure that your system is connected
to a local area network and that the network is configured and
running. You must know the name of your NIS domain and
your system's role in the domain (master server, slave server, or
client).
.PP
If your system will be the master server for your NIS domain,
be sure no other master exists for your domain and that the NIS
database files are in the directory \*L/var/yp/src\*O.
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.RS 5
.PP
Remove the \*Lroot\*O entry, if it exists, from the \*Lpasswd\*O database file.
.sp 6p
.RE
.PP
If your system be will be a slave server or client,
be sure a master server is already set up for your NIS domain.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/nissetup\*O"
Specifies the command pathname
.LI "\*L/etc/rc.config\*O"
NIS parameters pertinent to a specific system
.LE
.SS Default NIS Databases
.PP
In the \*L/var/yp/src\*O directory, the default databases are:
.VL
.LI "\*Lgroup\*O"
Group database
.LI "\*Lhosts\*O"
Host database
.LI "\*Lmail.aliases\*O"
Sendmail alias database
.LI "\*Lnetgroup\*O"
Network group aliases database
.LI "\*Lnetworks\*O"
Network database
.LI "\*Lpasswd\*O"
Password database
.LI "\*Lprotocols\*O"
Protocol database
.LI "\*Lrpc\*O"
RPC database
.LI "\*Lservices\*O"
Service database
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Ldomainname\*O(1), \*Lypwhich\*O(1), \*Lsvc.conf\*O(4),
\*Lsvcsetup\*O(8), \*Lypbind\*O(8), \*Lyppasswdd\*O(8), \*Lypserv\*O(8),
\*Lypxfr\*O(8).
.PP
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
