.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: nslookup.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/09 14:25:52 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1986,1990 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\"	@(#)nslookup.8	5.3 (Berkeley)
.\" 
.TH nslookup 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lnslookup\*O \- Queries Internet name servers interactively
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lnslookup\*O [\*L-\*Voption\*O ...] [\*Vhost-to-find \*O[\*Vserver\*O]]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "nslookup"
.iX "name server"
The \*Lnslookup\*O command is a program that is used to query Internet
domain name servers.  The \*Lnslookup\*O command has two modes:
interactive and noninteractive.
.VL
.LI "Noninteractive mode"
Noninteractive mode is used to print just the name and requested
information for a host or domain.  Noninteractive mode is invoked
when the name or Internet address of the host to be looked up
is given as the first argument. The optional second argument specifies
the hostname or address of a name server.
.LI "Interactive mode"
Interactive mode allows the user to query
name servers for information about various hosts and domains or to print
a list of hosts in a domain.  Interactive mode is invoked when you
specify \*Lnslookup\*O without arguments (the default name server will
be used), or when the first argument you specify is a \*L-\*O (dash)
and the second argument is the hostname or Internet address of a name server.
.LE
.PP
The options listed under the \*Lset\*O command can be specified in
the \*L.nslookuprc\*O file in the user's home directory if they are listed
one per line. Options can also be specified
on the command line if they precede the arguments and are prefixed with
a \*L-\*O (dash).  For example, to change the default query type to
host information, and the initial time-out to 10 seconds, enter:
.iS
nslookup \-query=hinfo  \-timeout=10
.iE
.SS "Interactive Commands"
Commands may be interrupted at any time by entering \*L<Ctrl-c>\*O.
To exit, enter \*L<Ctrl-d>\*O (EOF) or type \*Lexit\*O.
The command line length must be less than 256 characters.
To treat a built-in command as a hostname,
precede it with an escape character \*L\\\*O (backslash).
Note that an unrecognized command will be interpreted as a hostname.
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vhost\*O [\*Vserver\*O]"
Look up information for \*Vhost\*O using the current default server
or using \*Vserver\*O if specified.  If \*Vhost\*O is an Internet
address and the query type is A or PTR, the name of the host is returned.
If \*Vhost\*O is a name and does not have a trailing period, the default
domain name is appended to the name. (This behavior depends on the
state of the \*Lset\*O options \*Ldomain\*O, \*Lsrchlist\*O,
\*Ldefname\*O, and \*Lsearch\*O).  To look up a host not in the
current domain, append a \*L.\*O (dot) to the name.
.LI "\*Lserver\*O \*Vdomain\*O"
.LI "\*Llserver\*O \*Vdomain\*O"
Change the default server to \*Vdomain\*O.
\*Llserver\*O uses the initial server to look up
information about \*Vdomain\*O, while \*Lserver\*O
uses the current default server.
If an authoritative answer cannot be found, the names of servers
that might have the answer are returned.
.LI "\*Lroot\*O"
Changes the default server to the server for the root of the domain name space.
Currently, the host \*Lns.nic.ddn.mil\*O is used.
(This command is a synonym for \*Llserver ns.nic.ddn.mil.\*O)
The name of the root server can be changed with the \*Lset root\*O command.
.LI "\*Lfinger\*O [\*Vname\*O] [\*L>\*O \*Vfilename\*O]"
.LI "\*Lfinger\*O [\*Vname\*O] [\*L>>\*O \*Vfilename\*O]"
Connect with the finger server on the current host.
The current host is defined when a previous lookup for a host
was successful and returned address information (see the
\*Lset querytype=A\*O command).  \*Vname\*O is optional.
The\*L>\*O and \*L>>\*O (redirection symbols) can be used to redirect
output in the usual manner.
.LI "\*Lls\*O [\*Voption\*O] \*Vdomain\*O [\*L>\*O \*Vfilename\*O]"
.LI "\*Lls\*O [\*Voption\*O] \*Vdomain\*O [\*L>>\*O \*Vfilename\*O]"
List the information available for \*Vdomain\*O, optionally creating
or appending to \*Vfilename\*O.
The default output contains hostnames and their Internet addresses.
\*Voption\*O
can be one of the following:
.VL
.LI "\*L-t\*O \*Vquerytype\*O"
Lists all records of the specified type (see \*Vquerytype\*O later in
this reference page).
.LI "\*L\-a\*O"
Lists aliases of hosts in the domain.  This option is a synonym for
\*L\-t CNAME\*O.
.LI "\*L\-d\*O"
Lists all records for the domain.
This option is a synonym for \*L-t ANY\*O.
.LI "\*L\-h\*O"
Lists CPU and operating system information for the domain.
This option is a synonym for \*L-t HINFO\*O.
.LI "\*L\-s\*O"
Lists well-known services of hosts in the domain.
This option is a synonym for \*L-t WKS\*O.
.LE
When output is directed to a file, # (number signs) are printed for every
50 records received from the server.
.LI "\*Lview\*O \*Vfilename\*O"
Sorts and lists the output of previous \*Lls\*O command(s) with
\*Lmore\*O.
.LI "\*Lhelp\*O"
.LI "\*L?\*O"
Prints a brief summary of commands.
.LI "\*Lexit\*O"
Exits the program.
.LI "\*Lset\*O \*Vkeyword\*O[=\*Vvalue\*O]"
This command is used to change state information that affects the lookups.
Valid keywords are:
.VL
.LI "\*Lall\*O"
Prints the current values of the frequently used options to \*Lset\*O.
Information about the  current default server and host is also printed.
.LI "\*Lclass=\*Vvalue\*O"
Changes the query class to one of:
.VL
.LI "\*LIN\*O"
The Internet class.
.LI "\*LCHAOS\*O"
The Chaos class.
.LI "\*LHESIOD\*O"
The MIT Athena Hesiod class.
.LI "\*LANY\*O"
Wildcard (any of the above).
.LE
The class specifies the protocol group of the information.
(Default = \*LIN\*O, abbreviation = \*Lcl\*O)
.LI "\*L[no]debug\*O"
Turns debugging mode on. A lot more information is printed about the
packet sent to the server and the resulting answer.
(Default = \*Lnodebug\*O, abbreviation = [\*Lno]deb\*O)
.LI "\*L[no]d2\*O"
Turns exhaustive debugging mode on.
Essentially all fields of every packet are printed.
(Default = \*Lnod2\*O)
.LI "\*Ldomain=\*Vname\*O"
Changes the default domain name to \*Vname\*O.
The default domain name is appended to a lookup request depending on the
state of the \*Ldefname\*O and \*Lsearch\*O options.
The domain search list contains the parents of the default domain if it has
at least two components in its name.
For example, if the default domain
is \*LCC.Berkeley.EDU\*O, the search list is \*LCC.Berkeley.EDU\*O
and \*LBerkeley.EDU\*O.
Use the \*Lset srchlist\*O command to specify a different list.
Use the \*Lset all\*O command to display the list.
(Default = value from hostname, \*L/etc/resolv.conf\*O or
\*LLOCALDOMAIN\*O, abbreviation = \*Ldo\*O)
.LI "\*Lsrchlist=\*Vname1/name2/...\*O"
Change the default domain name to \*Vname1\*O and the domain search list
to \*Vname1\*O, \*Vname2\*O, and so on. A maximum of 6 names
separated by | (slashes) can be specified:
For example:
.iS
    set srchlist=lcs.MIT.EDU/ai.MIT.EDU/MIT.EDU
.iE
sets the domain to \*Llcs.MIT.EDU\*O and the search list to the three names.
This command overrides the
default domain name and search list of the \*Lset domain\*O command.
Use the \*Lset all\*O command to display the list.
(Default = value based on hostname, \*L/etc/resolv.conf\*O or
\*LLOCALDOMAIN\*O, abbreviation = \*Lsrchl\*O)
.LI "\*L[no]defname\*O"
If set, appends the default domain name to a single-component lookup request
(that is, one that does not contain a dot).
(Default = \*Ldefname\*O, abbreviation = \*L[no]def\*O)
.LI "\*L[no]search\*O"
If the lookup request contains at least one \*L.\*O (dot) but does not end
with a trailing dot, append the domain names in the domain search list
to the request until an answer is received.
(Default = \*Lsearch\*O, abbreviation = \*L[no]sea\*O)
.LI "\*Lport=\*Vvalue\*O"
Changes the default TCP/UDP name server port to \*Vvalue\*O.
(Default = \*L53\*O, abbreviation = \*Lpo\*O)
.LI "\*Lquerytype=\*Vvalue\*O"
.LI "\*Ltype=\*Vvalue\*O"
Change the type of information query to one of:
.VL
.LI "\*LA\*O"
The host's Internet address.
.LI "\*LCNAME\*O"
The canonical name for an alias.
.LI "\*LHINFO\*O"
The host CPU and operating system type.
.LI "\*LMINFO\*O"
The mailbox or mail list information.
.LI "\*LMX\*O"
The mail exchanger.
.LI "\*LNS\*O"
The name server for the named zone.
.LI "\*LPTR\*O"
The hostname if the query is an Internet address;
otherwise the pointer to other information.
.LI "\*LSOA\*O"
The domain's start-of-authority information.
.LI "\*LTXT\*O"
The text information.
.LI "\*LUINFO\*O"
The user information.
.LI "\*LWKS\*O"
The supported well-known services.
.LE
Other types (\*L\&.BANY\*O, \*L\&.BAXFR\*O, \*L\&.BMB\*O, \*L\&.BMD\*O,
\*L\&.BMF\*O, \*L\&.BNULL\*O) are described in the RFC1035 document.
(Default = \*LA\*O, abbreviations = \*Lq, ty\*O)
.LI "\*L[no]recurse\*O"
Tells the name server to query other servers if it does not have the
information.  (Default = \*Lrecurse\*O, abbreviation = \*L[no]rec\*O)
.LI "\*Lretry=\*Vnumber\*O"
Sets the number of retries to \*Vnumber\*O.
When a reply to a request is not received within a certain
amount of time (changed with \*Lset time-out\*O),
the timeout period is doubled and the request is present.
The retry value controls how many times a request is resent before giving up.
(Default = \*L4\*O, abbreviation = \*Lret\*O)
.LI "\*Lroot=\*Vhost\*O"
Changes the name of the root server to \*Vhost\*O. This
affects the \*Lroot\*O command.
(Default = \*Lns.nic.ddn.mil.\*O, abbreviation = \*Lro\*O)
.LI "\*Ltimeout=\*Vnumber\*O"
Changes the initial timeout interval
for waiting for a reply to \*Vnumber\*O seconds.
Each retry doubles the timeout period.
(Default = 5 seconds, abbreviation = ti)
.LI "\*L[no]vc\*O"
Always use a virtual circuit when sending requests to the server.
(Default = novc, abbreviation = [no]v)
.LI "\*L[no]ignoretc\*O"
Ignore packet truncation errors.
(Default = noignoretc, abbreviation = [no]ig)
.LE
.LE
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
If the lookup request was not successful, an error message is printed.
Possible errors are:
.VL
.LI "\*CTimed out\*O"
The server did not respond to a request after a certain amount of
time (changed with \*Lset timeout=\*Vvalue\*O)
and a certain number of retries (changed with \*Lset retry=\*Vvalue\*O).
.LI "\*CNo response from server\*O"
No name server is running on the server machine.
.LI "\*CNo records\*O"
The server does not have resource records of the current query type for the
host, although the hostname is valid.
The query type is specified with the \*Lset querytype\*O command.
.LI "\*CNonexistent domain\*O"
The host or domain name does not exist.
.LI "\*CConnection refused\*O"
.LI "\*CNetwork is unreachable\*O"
The connection to the name or finger server could not be made at the
current time.  This error commonly occurs with \*Lls\*O and \*Lfinger\*O
requests.
.LI "\*CServer failure\*O"
The name server found an internal inconsistency in its database
and could not return a valid answer.
.LI "\*CRefused\*O"
The name server refused to service the request.
.LI "\*CFormat error\*O"
The name server found that the request packet was not in the proper format.
It may indicate an error in \*Lnslookup\*O.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/bin/nslookup\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/etc/resolv.conf\*O"
Initial domain name and name server addresses
.LI "\*L$HOME/.nslookuprc\*O"
User's initial options
.LI "\*L/usr/share/misc/nslookup.help\*O"
Summary of commands
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lnamed\*O(8)
.PP
Functions: \*Lresolver\*O(4)
.PP
Files: \*Lresolv.conf\*O(4)
.PP
Specifications:  RFC1034, RFC1035
.EQ
delim off
.EN
