.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ntpdate.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 14:53:36 $
.\"
.\".so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.\".so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.TH ntpdate 8
.SH NAME
ntpdate \- set the date and time via NTP (Network Time Protocol)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /usr/sbin/ntpdate
[
.B -bdos
] [
.\"  Removed per Terry Linsey 9/4/91 - BAC
.\".B -a
.\".I key#
.\"] [
.\".B -e
.\".I authdelay
.\"] [
.\".B -k
.\".I keyfile
.\"] [
.B -p
\*Vsamples\*O
] [
.B -t
\*Vtimeout\*O
]
server1 server2 server3 ...
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L-b\*O"
Tells
\*Vntpdate\*O
to step the system time immediately to match NTP. Use this option only
when booting the system.
.LI "\*L-d\*O"
Debug flag.
.LI "\*L-o\*O"
Forces
\*Vntpdate\*O
to poll as a version 1 implementation. By default
\*Vntpdate\*O
claims to be an NTP version 2 implementation in its outgoing packets.
Some older software, including the University of Maryland's
\*Vntpd ,\*O
will decline to respond to version 2 queries.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Tells
\*Vntpdate\*O
to log its actions via the \*Lsyslog\*O(3)
facility rather than to the standard output.
.LI "\*L-p\*O \*Vsamples\*O"
Acquires a specified number of samples from each server. This value of
\*Vsamples\*O can be set between 1 and 8, inclusive. The default is 4.
.LI "\*L-t\*O \*Vtimeout\*O"
Waits \*Vtimeout\*O seconds for a response.
Any value entered will be rounded to a multiple of 0.2 seconds.  The default
is 1 second, a value suitable for polling across a LAN.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\*VNtpdate\*O
sets the local date and time by polling the Network Time Protocol
server(s) on the host(s) given as arguments to determine
the correct time.  It must be run as root on the local host.  A number
of samples are obtained from each of the servers specified and the
standard NTP clock filter and selection algorithms are applied to select
the best of these.
\*Vntpdate\*O
is run from
\*V/sbin/init.d/settime\*O
to set the time of day at boot time, if NTP is configured. (See
\*Lntpsetup\*O(8) for information on configuring NTP.)
Note that
.IR ntpdate 's
reliability and precision will improve dramatically with greater numbers
of servers.  While a single server may be used, better performance and
integrity will be obtained by providing at least three or four servers, if not
more.
.PP
Time adjustments are made by
\*Vntpdate\*O
in one of two ways.  If
\*Vntpdate\*O
determines your clock is off by more than 0.5 seconds it will simply
step the time by calling \*Lsettimeofday\*O(2).
If the error is less than 0.5 seconds, however, it will by default slew
the clock's time via a call to \*Ladjtime\*O(2)
with the offset.  The latter technique is less disruptive and more
accurate when the offset is small.
.\", and works quite well when
.\".I ntpdate
.\"is run by \*Lcron\*O(8) every hour or two.
The adjustment made in the latter
case is actually 50% larger than the measured offset since this will
tend to keep a badly drifting clock more accurate (at some expense to
stability, though this tradeoff is usually advantageous).  At boot time,
however, it is usually better to always step the time, by using the
.B -b
option on the command line.
.\".PP
.\".I Ntpdate
.\"will authenticate its transactions if need be.  The
.\".B -a
.\"switch specifies that all packets should be authenticated using the
.\"key number indicated.  The
.\".B -k
.\"switch allows the name of the file from which the keys may be read
.\"to be modified from the default of
.\".I /etc/ntp.keys.
.\"This file should be in the format described in \*Lxntpd\*O(8). The
.\".B -e
.\"option allows the specification of an authentication processing delay,
.\"in seconds (see \*Lxntpd\*O(8) for details).
.\"This number is usually small enough to be negligible for
.\".IR ntpdate 's
.\"purposes, though specifying a value may improve timekeeping on very slow
.\"CPU's.
.\".PP
.\".I Ntpdate
.\"will decline to set the date if an NTP server daemon (e.g. \*Lxntpd\*O(8))
.\"is running on the same host.  When running
.\".I ntpdate
.\"on a regular basis from \*Lcron\*O(8)
.\"as an alternative to running a daemon, doing so once every hour or two
.\"will result in precise enough timekeeping to avoid stepping the clock.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/bin/ntpdate\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE
.\".fi
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lntpsetup\*O(8), \*Lntp.conf\*O(4), \*Lntpq\*O(8), \*Lxntpd\*O(8), \*Lxntpdc\*O(8)
.\".SH HISTORY
.\"Written by Dennis Ferguson at the University of Toronto
.\".SH BUGS
.\"The technique used for improving accuracy by compensating for clock
.\"oscillator errors sucks, but doing better would require the program
.\"to save state from previous runs.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
