.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ntpdc.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 14:53:46 $
.\"
.TH ntpdc 8
.SH NAME
ntpdc \- monitor operation of the NTP daemon, ntpd
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /usr/bin/ntpdc
[
.B \-n
][
.B \-v
]
\f2host1 \f1|\fP IPaddress1 ... \fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lntpdc\*O
.iX "ntpdc command"
command sends a query to the \*Lntpd\*O
daemon running on each of the hosts listed on the command line.
The \*Lntpd\*O daemon on each responding host sends information about the
current calculated offset between its time and the time of each of
its NTP servers or peers.  The \*Lntpdc\*O command formats
the information on the standard output.
.PP
The \*Lntpdc\*O program cannot be used to monitor the \*Lxntpd\*O
daemon. To monitor the \*Lxntpd\*O daemon, use either \*Lntpq\*O or
\*Lxntpdc\*O.
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.RS 5
You can specify hosts by either host name or Internet
address.  The hosts that you specify must either exist
in the \*L/etc/hosts\*O file, or in the master \*Lhosts\*O
database, if the database is being served to your
system by BIND or Network Information Services (NIS).
.sp 6p
.RE
The \*Lntpdc\*O command by default generates a terse, table-style report.
If you
specify the \*L\-v\*O option, the \*Lntpdc\*O command generates
a verbose report.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP \-n
Prints Internet addresses, instead of host names, of the
servers or peers.
By default, the Internet addresses of the responding hosts and the
names of their servers or peers are
printed.
.IP \-v
Prints a verbose report for each of the servers or peers
of the responding host.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.SS
Terse Report:
.PP
The following is a typical terse report generated in response to the
command:
.oS
% \f(CB/usr/bin/ntpdc 555.5.55.55
.oE
The host 555.5.55.55 is an NTP client, with the servers \*Lserver1\*O,
\*Lserver2\*O, and \*Lserver3\*O specified in its
\*L/etc/ntp.conf\*O file.  The information returned is about
\*Lserver1\*O, \*Lserver2\*O, and \*Lserver3\*O.
.if t .ig
.ta .5i 1i 2.3i 3.0i 3.5i 4.1i 4.8i 5.6i
 \f3Address Strat Poll Reach Delay Offset Disp\fP
.br
(rem) (lcl)
.br
\&.\f2server1\fP 555.5.55.55 1 64 377 53.0 -65.0 5.0
.br
*\f2server2\fP 555.5.55.55 1 256 377 155.0 -4.0 16.0
.br
+\f2server3\fP 555.5.55.55 2 64 377 16.0 -61.0 3.0
..
.if n .ig
.ta .3i .7i 1.7i 2.2i 2.7i 3.2i 3.9i 4.6i
 \f3Address Strat Poll Reach Delay Offset Disp\fP
.br
\f3(rem) (lcl)\fP
.br
\&.\f2server1\fP 555.5.55.55 1 64 377 53.0 -65.0 5.0
.br
*\f2server2\fP 555.5.55.55 1 256 377 155.0 -4.0 16.0
.br
+\f2server3\fP 555.5.55.55 2 64 377 16.0 -61.0 3.0
..
.PP
The fields are interpreted as follows:
.IP "\- , + , . \f1or\fP *"
A minus sign (\-), plus sign (+), or dot (.) indicates a
pre-configured peer (see the \*Lntp.conf\*O(4) reference page).
The asterisk (*) indicates which pre-configured peer (if
any) is currently being used for synchronization.
.IP (rem)
The remote host name or Internet address of a peer or server of the
responding host.
.IP (lcl)
The Internet address of the responding host that was specified on the
\*Lntpdc\*O command line.
.IP Strat
The current operating stratum level of the peer
or server.  Since the NTP hierarchy can change dynamically the stratum
levels may change.  Lower stratum levels correspond to fewer hops to an
accurate time source, and do not necessarily correspond to higher accuracy.
.IP Poll
Current polling interval in seconds for this peer or server.
Polling intervals change dynamically.
.IP Reach
Reachability in response to the last 8 polls (value of
8-bit shift register). A value of 0377 indicates the remote system
responded to the last 8 polls.
.IP Delay
The estimated round-trip delay in milliseconds for
NTP message exchanges between the responding host and this peer
or server.  Delay is calculated from the previous 8 polls.
.IP Offset
The estimated offset between the peer or server's time and the responding
host's time in milliseconds.  This value is calculated from the
previous 8 polls.
.IP Disp
The current estimated value of dispersion in milliseconds for this peer's
offset/delay pair.
.IP
Dispersion is used by the \*Lntpd\*O
daemon in the clock selection algorithm.  Increasing values of dispersion are
associated with decreasing quality of the estimate.
.SS
Verbose Report:
.PP
When the \*L\-v\*O option is given,
a verbose report for each of the servers or peers
of each of the hosts
specified on the command line is generated.
.PP
The following is a typical verbose report generated in response to the
following command line:
.oS
% \f(CB/usr/bin/ntpdc \-v 111.11.111.11\fP
Neighbor address 555.55.5.55 port:123  local address 111.11.1.11
Reach: 0377 stratum: 2, precision: \-7
dispersion: 2.000000, flags: 1301, leap: 0
Reference clock ID: [22.22.2.22] timestamp: 7e5aa1a9.2add5d0b
hpoll: 10, ppoll: 10, timer: 1024, sent: 85 received: 90
Delay(ms)   20.00  20.00  28.00  29.00  20.00  39.00  29.00  28.00
Offset(ms)   5.00   6.00   5.00  \-1.00  \-2.00   0.00   3.00   5.00
        delay: 20.000000 offset: 5.000000 dsp 2.000000
--------------------------------------------------------------------
.oE
.PP
The fields are interpreted as follows:
.IP "Neighbor address"
The address and port number of one NTP server, followed by
the Internet address of the responding host (\*Llocal address\*O).
.IP Reach:
Reachability in response to the last 8 polls (value of
8-bit shift register). A value of 0377 indicates the remote system
responded to the last 8 polls.
.IP stratum: \f2n\fP
The current operating stratum level of the peer
or server.  Since the NTP hierarchy can change dynamically the stratum
levels may change.  Lower stratum levels correspond to fewer hops to an
accurate time source, and do not necessarily correspond to higher accuracy.
.IP precision: \f2nn\fP
The precision of this clock, given in seconds as a power of
2.  If precision is equal to
\-7, that means that the precision is 2**\-7, or 1/128 seconds.
The \*Lntpd\*O daemon automatically determines the
precision of each clock based on the
kernel variable \*LHZ\*O.
.IP disp: \f2nn\fP
The current estimated value of dispersion in milliseconds for this peer's
offset/delay pair.
Dispersion is used by the \*Lntpd\*O
daemon in the clock selection algorithm.  Increasing values of dispersion are
associated with decreasing quality of the estimate.
.IP "flags: \f2nn\fP"
The \*Lflags\*O parameter is used by the \*Lntpd\*O
daemon clock selection process.
.IP "leap: \f2flag\fP"
The leap second indicator.  Non-zero if there is to be a
leap second inserted in the NTP timescale.  The bits are
set before 23:59 on the day of insertion and reset after
00:00 on the following day.
.IP "Reference clock ID: \f2address\fP"
If the NTP server is synchronized by a radio/satellite
timecode receiver, this field is \*LWWV\*O, \*LWWVB\*O, or \*LGOES\*O.
If the NTP server is the local reference clock, this field is \*LLOCL\*O.
Finally, this field can be the \*L[internet_address]\*O
of the most accurate NTP server currently serving the responding
host.
.IP "timestamp: \f2nn\fP"
The local time, in hex-timestamp format, when the local clock
of the server was last updated.
.IP "hpoll: \f2n\fP"
The host poll interval which is the maximum interval between messages
transmitted to the server, in seconds as a power of 2.  For
example, a value of 6 indicates an interval of 64 seconds.
.IP "ppoll: \f2n\fP"
The peer poll interval which is the maximum interval between messages
sent by the server, in seconds as a power of 2.  For
example, a value of 6 indicates an interval of 64 seconds.
.IP "timer: \f2nn\fP"
The current poll rate in seconds.
.IP "sent: \f2nn\fP"
The number of NTP packets sent to this server by the responding host.
.IP "received: \f2nn\fP"
The number of NTP packets received from this server by the responding
host.
.IP "Delay and Offset"
The round-trip delay and estimated clock offset for the last eight NTP
packet exchanges.  If there are fewer than eight valid samples,
the delay field will be zero.
.IP "delay: \f2est-delay\fP offset: \f2est-offset\fP dsp: \f2n\fP"
Estimated delay, offset, and dispersion calculated from the
above 8 samples.  See RFC 1129 for how to calculate the
estimated delay, offset, and dispersion.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B "host1: connection refused"
.br
Check whether the \*Lntpd\*O daemon is running on \*Lhost1\*O.
.PP
.B "host2: unknown"
.br
The \*Lntpdc\*O command cannot resolve the host name \*Lhost2\*O.
Check that \*Lhost2\*O exists in the \*L/etc/hosts\*O
file, or that it exists in the master \*Lhosts\*O
database, if the database is being served by BIND or NIS.
.PP
If a server is listed in the host's \*L/etc/ntp.conf\*O
file, but does not appear in the \*Lntpdc\*O
report, it is possible that the \*Lntpd\*O
daemon on the responding host can not resolve the server
names in the \*L/etc/ntp.conf\*O file.  Check that the server
exists in the responding host's \*L/etc/hosts\*O file or in the master
\*Lhosts\*O database, if the database is being served
to the responding host by BIND or NIS.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lntp\*O(1), \*Lntp.conf\*O(4), \*Lntpq\*O(8),
\*Lntpsetup\*O(8), \*Lxntpdc\*O(8), \*Lxntpd\*O(8)
.br
\f2RFC 1129\(emInternet Time Synchronization:  the Network Time Protocol\fP
.br
\*ENetwork Administration and Problem Solving\*O
.br
\*ENetwork and Communications Overview\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
