.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ntpsetup.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 14:54:06 $
.\"
.\" 
.TH ntpsetup 8
.SH NAME
\*Lntpsetup\*O \- Sets up the Network Time Protocol (NTP) service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/ntpsetup\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ntpsetup command"
NTP provides a distributed time synchronization
service that distributes time traceable to an accurate time source.
The \*Lntpsetup\*O script configures and runs NTP on your system.  You can
use \*Lntpsetup\*O to initially set up your NTP configuration or to change your
current NTP configuration.
.PP
The \*Lntpsetup\*O script sets up an NTP client or a
local NTP server which will use other NTP servers as its time source.
You can not use \*Lntpsetup\*O to set up a local NTP
server as a local reference clock.
.PP
Before running \*Lntpsetup\*O, make sure that your system is
connected to a local area network, and that the network software
is configured and running.  Also, use the \*L/usr/bin/ntp\*O command
to check that each system that your system specifies as an NTP server is
running NTP.
.PP
The \*Lntpsetup\*O script prompts you for the names of the
systems that your system will use as NTP servers.  If a system
that you specify is not in your local \*L/etc/hosts\*O file,
you must specify the server's IP address.
\*Lntpsetup\*O also prompts you for the name of the NTP daemon running on
each server (\*Lxntpd\*O or \*Lntpd\*O).  If you are uncertain which
daemon is running on a particular server, choose \*Lntpd\*O.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/ntpsetup\*O"
Specifies the command pathname
.LI "\*L/etc/rc.config\*O"
Specifies NTP parameters pertinent to a specific system
.LI "\*L/etc/ntp.conf\*O"
NTP configuration file
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lntp\*O(1), \*Lntpdate\*O(8), \*Lntpq\*O(8),
\*Lxntpd\*O(8), \*Lxntpdc\*O(8).
.PP
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
