.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pac.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 12:35:33 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" hah_08.15.90
.\" math_08.21.90
.TH pac 8
.SH NAME
\*Lpac\*O \- Outputs printer/plotter accounting information
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*Lpac\*O [\*L-cmrs\*O] [\*L-p \*Vprice\*O] [\*L-P \*Vprinter\*O] [\*Vname\*O]
.sE 
.SH "FLAGS"
.VL
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Sorts output according to the computed cost instead of alphabetically
according to user.
.LI "\*L-m\c\*O"
Groups all printing charges for the user specified by \*Vname\*O,
without regard for the host machine from which printing was invoked.
.LI "\*L-p \*O\*Vprice\*O"
Uses the dollar amount charged per unit of output specified by \*Vprice\*O.
The default dollar amount charged is $0.02 per unit when a dollar amount
is not specified by an entry in the \*L/etc/qconfig\*O file or there is no
\*L/etc/qconfig\*O file.
.LI "\*L-P \*O\*Vprinter\*O"
Specifies the printer for which accounting records are produced.
Alternatively, the system selects the printer named with the
\*LPRINTER\*O environment variable, or the default printer \*Llp0\*O.
.LI "\*L-r\*O"
Reverses the sorted order, so that records are listed alphabetically
from z to a, or in descending order by computed cost when this flag is
used with the \*L-c\*O flag.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Writes printer accounting information to a summary file. You must
specify the \*L-P\*O flag and \*Vprinter\*O name when you use this flag.
Output is made to a file in the \*L/var/adm/printer\*O subdirectory.
The file name is \*Vprinter\*O\*L\&.acct_sum\*O, where 
\*Vprinter\*O is the specified printer name.
Output is in three unheaded columns in the format:
.oS
pages/feet   machinename:username   runs
.oE 
.LE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
When printer accounting is enabled in the \*L/etc/printcap\*O file,
and you use the \*Lpac\*O command in a shell script or from the standard input,
\*Lpac\*O outputs printer/plotter accounting records to the standard
output for each user of the printer specified with the \*L-P\*O flag
and \*Vprinter\*O name or for users specified with the \*Vname\*O
parameter. The unit used for printer accounting is the number of pages
printed.  However, for raster devices (such as laser printers,
typesetters, and plotters) length in feet of paper (film, for example)
is the unit used.  Output units are expressed both as the number of
units used and the charge in dollars according to the price specified
with \*L-p\*O flag and \*Vprice\*O amount per unit.  The
printer/plotter accounting output has the following column headings
and format:
.oS
Login			pages/feet	runs	price
chicken:rcb		19.00		2	$  0.38
sardine:jmp		22.00		3	$  0.44
hunch:lucy		53.00		12	$  1.06
stovetop:suki		1.00		1	$  0.02
newspaper:myralou	834.00		202	$ 16.68
wimbledon:nhk		69.00		20	$  1.38
norfolk:sophie	184.00		17	$  3.68
.oE
.PP 
There are four fields, each with its own column heading, in each
record of the default output produced by the \*Lpac\*O command: 1) the
machine from which the print command was entered and login name is
entered in the \*CLogin\*O column; 2) the number of pages or feet of
paper output is entered in the \*Cpage/feet\*O column; 3) the number
of times the printer was used is entered in the \*Cruns\*O column;
and 4) the cost computed at the default or specified price is entered
in the \*Cprice\*O column.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP 
.AL
.LI
To print printer/plotter accounting information for all users of
default printer \*Llp0\*O to the standard output device, enter:
.iS
/usr/sbin/pac
.iE
Output is sorted alphabetically according to machine name and username.
The number of printed pages or feet of output paper used and the
charge per foot of paper or page is computed at the default dollar
amount of $0.02 per page because no flags are specified. The
assumption here is that the \*LPRINTER\*O environment variable is
unspecified and no dollar amount for cost per page is specified in the
\*L/etc/qconfig\*O file, or there is no \*L/etc/qconfig\*O file.
.LI
To write accounting records for printer \*Lprinter1\*O 
in a summary file, enter the following line as a superuser or as \*Ladm\*O:
.iS
/usr/sbin/pac  -Pprinter1 -s
.iE
Summary information is written to the file 
\*L/var/adm/printer/printer1.acct_sum\*O.
.LI
To produce accounting information for users \*Llucy\*O,
\*Lsuki\*O and \*Lmyralou\*O for pages printed on printer \*Lputnam408\*O,
enter:
.iS
/usr/sbin/pac  -Pputnam408  lucy suki myralou
.iE
.LE
.SH "FILES"
.PP 
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/pac\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/var/adm/\*O\*Vprinter\*L.acct_sum\*O"
Accounting information summary file.
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands: \*Lacct\*O(8), \*Lacctcms\*O(8), \*Lacctcom\*O(8), \*Lacctcon\*O(8), \*Lacctmerg\*O(8), \*Lacctprc\*O(8), \*Lrunacct\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
