.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pcnfsd.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/27 19:36:41 $
.\"
.\" @(#) @(#)pcnfsd.8c 1.1 9/3/91;
.TH pcnfsd 8
.SH NAME
\*Lpcnfsd\*O, \*Lrpc.pcnfsd\*O \- The (PC)NFS authentication and print request server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/rpc.pcnfsd\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "pcnfsd"
.iX  "pcnfsd command" "pcnfsd adjunct services for PC ONC clients"
.iX  "servers"  "pcnfsd"  "pcnfsd adjunct services for PC ONC clients"
The \*Lpcnfsd\*O daemon is an
.SM RPC
server that supports ONC clients on PC (DOS, OS/2, Macintosh, and other)
systems. This reference page describes Version 2 of the
\*Lpcnfsd\*O server.
.PP
The \*Lrpc.pcnfsd\*O daemon is started via \*L/etc/rc.config\*O
by default. It can be turned off by running \*Lnfssetup\*O
and by answering 'no' to the appropriate question.
The \*Lpcnfsd\*O daemon reads the \*L/etc/pcnfsd.conf\*O configuration
file if present, and then services RPC requests directed to
program number 150001. This release of the \*Lpcnfsd\*O
daemon supports both Version 1 and Version 2 of the \*Lpcnfsd\*O
protocol.
.PP
The requests serviced by \*Lpcnfsd\*O
fall into three categories: authentication, printing, and other. Only the
authentication and printing services have administrative significance.
.SS AVAILABILITY
This program can be redistributed freely.
.SS AUTHENTICATION
When \*Lpcnfsd\*O receives a \*LPCNFSD_AUTH\*O or \*LPCNFSD2_AUTH\*O
request\**, it "logs in" the user by validating the user name and
password and returning the corresponding UID, GIDs, home directory,
and umask.
.PP
By default, \*Lpcnfsd\*O only allows authentication requests for users
with UIDs in the range 101 to 60002. (This corresponds in SVR4 to the
range for non-system accounts.) To override this, you can add a line in
the following format to the \*L/etc/pcnfsd.conf\*O file. Here each range
is either of the following forms indicating an inclusive range:
.oS
uid
.sp
uid-uid
.oE
.SS PRINTING
The \*Lpcnfsd\*O daemon supports a printing model based on the use of NFS to
transfer the actual print data from the client to the server. The client system
issues a \*LPCNFSD_PR_INIT\*O or \*LPCNFSD2_PR_INIT\*O
request, and the server returns the path to a spool directory that
the client can use and that is exported by NFS.
The \*Lpcnfsd\*O daemon creates a subdirectory for each of its clients: the
parent directory is normally \*L/usr/spool/pcnfs\*O
and the subdirectory is the host name of the client system.
You must also export the \*L/usr/spool/pcnfs\*O directory to the PC
clients.  If you want to use a different parent directory, add a
line of the following format to the \*L/etc/pcnfsd.conf\*O file:
.RS
.sp
\*Lspooldir\*O \*Vpath\*O
.sp
.RE
.PP
Once a client has mounted the spool directory by using NFS
and has transferred print data to a file in this directory, the client
issues a \*LPCNFSD_PR_START\*O or \*LPCNFSD2_PR_START\*O
request. The \*Lpcnfsd\*O daemon handles this, and most other
print-related requests, by
constructing a command based on the printing services of
the server operating system and by executing the command using the
identity of the PC user. Since this involves set-user-id privileges,
\*Lpcnfsd\*O must be run as root.
.PP
Every print request from the client includes the name of the printer
which is to be used. This name corresponds to a printer
definition in the \*L/etc/printcap\*O
database. If you want to define a nonstandard way of processing
print data, you should define a new printer and arrange for the
client to print to this printer. There are two ways of setting up a new printer.
The first involves the addition of an entry to \*L/etc/printcap\*O
and the creation of filters to perform the required processing. This
is outside the scope of this discussion. In addition, \*Lpcnfsd\*O
includes a mechanism by which  you can define virtual printers known
only to \*Lpcnfsd\*O clients. Each printer is defined by a line in the
\*L/etc/pcnfsd.conf\*O file of the following format:
.RS
.sp
\*Lprinter\*O \*Vname alias-for command\*O
.sp
.RE
The \*Vname\*O variable is the name of the printer you want to define
and the \*Valias-for\*O variable is the name of a ``real'' printer that
corresponds to this printer. For
example, a request to display the queue for \*Vname\*O is translated
into the corresponding request for the printer \*Valias-for\*O. If you have
defined a printer in such a way that there is no ``real'' printer to
which it corresponds, use a single dash (-) for this field. (See the
definition of the printer \*Ltest\*O
below for an example.) The \*Vcommand\*O variable is a
command that will be executed whenever a file is printed on \*Vname\*O.
This command is executed by the Bourne shell, \*L/bin/sh\*O,
using the \*L-c\*O option. For complex operations you should
construct an executable shell program and invoke that in \*Vcommand\*O.
Within \*Vcommand\*O, the following tokens will be replaced:
.PP
.TP 10
.B Token
.B Substitution
.TP
.B $FILE
Replaced by the full pathname of the print data file. When
the command has been executed, the file will be unlinked.
.TP
.B $USER
Replaced by the user name of the user logged in to the client system.
.TP
.B $HOST
Replaced by the host name of the client system.
.PP
The printer
.B test
is used only for testing. Any file sent to this printer
will be copied into
.B /usr/tmp.
Any request to list the queue, check the status, and so on of printer
.B test
will be rejected because the \*Valias-for\*O has been specified as a
dash (-).
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L/etc/pcnfsd.conf\*O"
The \*Lpcnfsd\*O configuration file.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Llp\*O(1), \*Llpq\*O(1), \*Llpstat\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
