.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pfconfig.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/10 17:40:55 $
.\"
.TH pfconfig 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lpfconfig\*O \- Configure packet filter parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/pfconfig\*O [ \*L+\*O/\*L\-p\*O [ \*Lromisc\*O ] ] [ \*L+\*O/\*L\-c\*O [ \*Lopyall\*O ] ] [ \*L\-b\*O [ \*Lacklog\*O ] \*Vnnn\*O ] [ \*L\-a\*O [ ll ] ] [ \*Vinterface-name\*O ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "pfconfig command"
.iX "packet filter" "configure parameters"
.iX "packet filter" "pfconfig command"
The \*Lpfconfig\*O command allows the system manager to configure certain
parameters of the packet filter driver (see \*Lpacketfilter\*O(7)).
These parameters are configured separately for each interface; the
interfaces are specified by name on the command line (for example,
\*Lln0\*O, and \*Lni1\*O).  If more than one interface is specified,
they are all given the same settings.  Alternatively, you can specify
\*L\-all\*O to configure all the packet-filter interfaces on the system.
.PP
You can set the following parameters with \*Lpfconfig\*O:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L+promisc\*O"
Allows packet filter users to set the interface into promiscuous mode
(receives all packets).  Whenever there is at least one packet filter
descriptor open with the ENPROMISC mode bit set, the interface is put
into promiscuous mode.  When no such descriptors are in use, the interface
is returned to normal mode.
.LI "\*L\-promisc\*O"
The interface is no longer
put into promiscuous mode on behalf of packet filter
users; if the interface is in promiscuous mode when this command is given,
it is returned to normal mode.  (The superuser may use \*Lifconfig\*O(8)
to control promiscuous mode, overriding the mode set by
non-superusers.  This is the default setting.)
.LI "\*L+copyall\*O"
Allows packet filter users to set the interface into copy-all mode
(receives packets sent/received by the kernel-resident protocol
software [for example, IP, ARP, DECnet, LAT] on this host).
Whenever there is at least one packet filter
descriptor open with the ENCOPYALL mode bit set, the interface
is put into copy-all mode.  When no such descriptors are in use,
the interface is returned to normal mode.
.LI "\*L\-copyall\*O"
The interface is no longer put into copy-all
mode on behalf of packet filter users;
if the interface is in copy-all mode when this command is given,
it is returned to normal mode.  (The superuser may use \*Lifconfig\*O(8)
to control copy-all mode, overriding the mode set by non-superusers.
This is the default setting.)
.LI "\*L\-backlog \*Vnnn\*O"
Sets the maximum backlog (packet filter input queue length)
for non-superuser descriptors to the
specified number.  When a descriptor is opened, it is given
a queue length limit of two. An application can increase
this backlog using the EIOCSETW ioctl request.  Superusers are allowed
to increase their backlog up to a system-wide maximum; non-superusers
are allowed to increase their backlog only up to the maximum set by this
program.  Note that allowing too large a backlog may result in vast amounts
of kernel memory being tied up in the packet filter driver queues.
.IP
If no configuration parameters are specified, the \*Lpfconfig\*O
command displays the current packet filter configuration
for the network interfaces.
.IP
Only the superuser may use this command to change the configuration.
.LE
.\"Removed for Ag/Maint as per John Dustin's request.
.\"rc.local not supported in Ag/Maint.
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"On a system used for network monitoring, one might put this line into
.\"\*L/etc/rc.local\*O:
.\".iS
.\"/usr/etc/pfconfig \-a +promisc \-backlog 64
.\".iE
.\"This allows users to run promiscuous network monitoring applications,
.\"with a maximum input queue length per application of 64 packets, on
.\"any interface in the system.
.\".iS
.\"/usr/etc/pfconfig \-a +promisc +copyall \-backlog 64
.\".iE
.\"This allows promiscuous network monitoring applications
.\"to monitor communications to or from the local host, as well as
.\"the rest of the local network.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.iX "pfconfig command" "errors"
Messages indicating the specified interface does not exist;
an attempt to set a maximum backlog less than 1 or greater than
the system-wide maximum; the user tried to alter an interface's configuration
but is not privileged.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lifconfig\*O(8), \*Lintro\*O(1), \*Lnetstat\*O(1), \*Lpfstat\*O(1)
.PP
Files: \*Lbpf\*O(7), \*Lpacketfilter\*O(7)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
