.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: popd.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.9 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/19 13:39:02 $
.\" 
.\"
.TH popd 8
.PP
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lpopd\*O - The POP server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.iX "popd daemon"
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/lib/mh/popd\*O [\*L-p \*Vportno\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-p\*V portno"
Overrides the default TCP port.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lpopd\*O server implements the Post Office Protocol (POP),  as  described
in  RFC1081  and RFC1082.  Basically, the server listens on the TCP
port named \*Lpop\*O for connections. When it receives a connection request
from a client, it performs the following functions:
.ML
.LI
Checks for client authentication by searching the \*LPOP\*O password file
in \*L/usr/spool/pop\*O.
.LI
Sends the client any mail messages it is holding
for the client. (The server holds the messages in \*L/usr/spool/pop\*O.)
.LE
.PP
For historical reasons, the MH POP defaults to using the port named
\*Lpop\*O (port 109) instead of its newly assigned port named \*Lpop3\*O
(port 110).
.PP
To determine which port MH POP is using, check the value of the
POPSERVICE configuration option. (You can display the POPSERVICE configuration
option by issuing any MH command with the \*L-help\*O option.)
This option shows the service port
name.  To find the port number, look in the \*L/etc/services\*O file
for the service port name assigned to the POPSERVICE configuration option.
The port number appears beside the service port name.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/pop/POP\*O"
Specifies the POP database.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Files: \*Lpop\*O(4), \*Lpopaka\*O(8), \*Lpopwrd\*O(8)
.PP
Documents: \*VPost Office Protocol \(em Version 3\*O (RFC-1081) and
\*VPost Office  Protocol \(em Version  3:  Extended  service  offerings\*O
(RFC-1082)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
