.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: portmap.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/15 14:05:07 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" @(#)portmap.8c 1.1 85/02/25 SMI;
.TH portmap 8
.SH NAME
\*Lportmap\*O \- The DARPA port to RPC program number mapper
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lportmap\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "portmap"
.iX "DARPA"
The \*Lportmap\*O
daemon is a server that converts Remote Procedure Call
(RPC) program numbers
into Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA)
protocol port numbers.
It must be running in order to make RPC calls.
.PP 
When an RPC server is started, it will tell
\*Lportmap\*O
what port number it is listening to,
and what RPC program numbers it is prepared to serve.
When a client wishes to make an RPC call to a given program number,
it will first contact \*Lportmap\*O
on the server machine to determine
the port number where RPC packets should be sent.
.PP 
The \*Lportmap\*O daemon must be started before any RPC servers, including
\*Lmountd\*O and \*Lnfsd\*O, are invoked.  Note that if \*Lportmap\*O crashes,
all servers must be restarted.
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/portmap\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\" changed servers.5 to services.4
.\"Files:  \*Lservers\*O(5)
Files:  \*Lservices\*O(4)
.PP
Daemons: \*Linetd\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
