.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: post.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 14:54:55 $
.\"
.TH post 8
.SH NAME
post \- deliver a message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /usr/lib/mh/post
[
\*Voptions\*O
]
\*Vfile\*O
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.\" .SH Arguments
.\" .TP 10
.\" .I file
.\" The file which
.\" \*Lpost\*O
.\" delivers.
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "post program"
The program \*Lpost\*O is called by \*Lsend\*O(1)
to deliver the message in the named file
to local and remote users.
In fact, all of the functions attributed to \*Lsend\*O on
its reference page are performed by \*Lpost\*O,
with \*Lsend\*O acting as a relatively simple pre-processor.
Thus, it is \*Lpost\*O which parses the various header fields,
appends \*LFrom:\*O and \*LDate:\*O lines,
and interacts with the transport system.
.PP
Normally, \*Lpost\*O would not be called directly by the user.
.PP
It
searches the \*LTo:\*O, \*Lcc:\*O, \*LBcc:\*O,
and \*LResent\-xxx:\*O
header lines of the specified message for destination addresses,
checks these addresses for validity, and formats them
so as to conform to ARPAnet Internet Message Format protocol
(unless the
.B \-noformat
flag is set).
This will normally cause \*L@local\-site\*O
to be appended to each local destination address, as well
as any local return addresses.
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.PP
The \*LX-mts:\*O
field of the message is used by \*Lpost\*O
to determine which transport system the message
is sent over.
There are two valid entries:
\*Lx400\*O will send the message over the X.400 transport system;
\*Lsmtp\*O will send it over non-X.400 transport.
Entries are case-insensitive.
If there is no entry in the \*LX-mts:\*O field, the
.B \-mts
\*Vmtsname\*O
option can be used to specify the transport system.
The arguments are the same:
.B x400
for messages sent over X.400 transport;
.B smtp
for messages sent over non-X.400 transport.
The arguments are case-insensitive.
An entry in the \*LX-mts:\*O
field of the message overrides any
.B \-mts
option specified at the command line.
If there is no entry in the \*LX-mts:\*O
field, and no
.B \-mts
option, the default is to assume non-X.400 transport.
See \*Lcomp\*O(1) for more information.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.PP
If a \*LBcc:\*O field is encountered,
the mail system will use its addresses for delivery.
The \*LBcc:\*O is
removed from the message sent to original recipients.
The copied recipients will receive an entirely new message
with a minimal set of headers.
The mail system includes a copy of the message
sent to the original recipients
in the body of the message.
.PP
This command
consults the environment variable \*L$SIGNATURE\*O to
determine the sender's personal name in constructing the \*LFrom:\*O
line of the message.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP "\-alias \f2aliasfile\f1" 10
Specifies a file that \*Lpost\*O
should take aliases from.
More than one file can be specified, each being preceded with the
.B \-alias
option. \*Lpost\*O
automatically consults the system alias file,
\*L/usr/lib/mh/MailAliases\*O.
If there is an \*LAliasfile\*O entry in your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O,
\*Lpost\*O also consults the file named in that entry.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-filter \f2filterfile\f1"
.PD 0
.IP \-nofilter
.PD
Filters (re-formats) messages sent to blind copy recipients.
Recipients named in the \*LBcc:\*O
field normally receive a new message which includes a copy
of the message sent to the other recipients.
If this option is specified, this copy of the message is
filtered according to the instructions in the named file.
The default is \f3\-nofilter\f1.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-format"
.PD 0
.IP \-noformat
.PD
Formats messages so as to conform to ARPAnet Internet Message Format
protocol.
This is the default behavior.
You can \*Lpost\*O from formatting messages in this way by using the
.B \-noformat
option.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-help"
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-msgid"
.PD 0
.IP \-nomsgid
.PD
Adds a \*LMessage-ID:\*O or \*LResent-Message-ID:\*O field to the header.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.IP "\-mts \f2mtsname\f1"
Specifies the transport system by which the message should be sent.
There are two valid values:
\*Lx400\*O indicates that the message is to be sent over X.400
transport; and
\*Lsmtp\*O indicates that the message is to be sent by non-X.400,
standard mail.
If there is an entry in the \*LX-mts:\*O
field of the message, this option overrides the
.B \-mts
option.
If there is no valid entry in the \*LX-mts:\*O
field and no valid
.B \-mts
option, the message is sent over non-X.400 transport.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.IP "\-mts smtp"
Specifies the mail system over which mail is sent.
The only value allowed is \f3smtp\f1,
which is the standard mail system.
Additional values are supported only for use with other
mail systems.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-verbose"
.PD 0
.IP \-noverbose
.PD
Informs the user of each step of the posting/filing process.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-watch"
.PD 0
.IP \-nowatch
.PD
Allows the user to watch the transport system's handling of the message
(for example, local and fast delivery).
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-width \f2columns\f1"
Specifies the preferred length of the header components
that contain addresses.
.PP
The default settings for \*Lpost\*O are:
.br
.B "\-alias /usr/lib/mh/MailAliases"
.br
.B \-format
.br
.B \-nomsgid
.br
.B "\-mts smtp"
.br
.B \-noverbose
.br
.B \-nowatch
.br
.B "\-width 72"
.br
.B \-nofilter
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
For this version, the
.B \-mts
option only supports the value \f3smtp\f1.
Additional values are supported for use only with
other mail systems.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
The \*Lpost\*O command does not consult the user's \*L\&.mh_profile\*O.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L/usr/lib/mh/mtstailor\*O
The system customization file.
.TP
\*L/usr/bin/mh/refile\*O
The program to process \*LFcc:\*Os.
.TP
\*L/usr/lib/mh/mhl\*O
The program to process \*LBcc:\*Os.
.TP
\*L/usr/lib/mh/MailAliases\*O
The system alias file.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lcomp\*O(1), \*Lmhmail\*O(1), \*Lsend\*O(1), \*Lmh-alias\*O(4),
\*Lmh-mail\*O(4), \*Omtstailor\*O(4)
.br
\f2Standard for the Format of ARPA Internet Text Messages\f1 (RFC 822)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
