.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: prestoctl_svc.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/20 01:07:21 $
.\"
.TH prestoctl_svc 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lprestoctl_svc\*O \- Prestoserve control daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/prestoctl_svc \-n\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "prestoctl_svc daemon"
The \*Lprestoctl_svc\*O RPC-based daemon allows remote
client systems to monitor and administer
a Prestoserve cache and its driver.  The client system does not have to
be running the Prestoserve software.  The daemon
can be started manually, or
it can be started each time you reboot by adding the command to a startup
sequence script for the machine running the Prestoserve software.
.PP
You must run the \*Lprestoctl_svc\*O daemon if
you want remote client systems to be able to use the \*Lpresto -h\*O
command to monitor and manage your system and if you want to use the
\*Ldxpresto\*O command.  Refer to \*Lpresto\*O(8) and to \*Ldxpresto\*O(8X)
for more information.
.PP
You must already be running the \*Lportmap\*O daemon if you want to use the
\*Lprestoctl_svc\*L daemon.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP \-n
Allows remote client systems to manage a Prestoserve cache and its driver.
The \f3\-n\fP option allows remote client systems
to change the size of a Prestoserve cache and to change
the state of a Prestoserve cache by using remote
procedure calls.  The \f3\-n\fP option is useful when evaluating or demonstrating
Prestoserve capabilities.  Because of security problems, it is
recommended that the \f3\-n\fP option not be used on production machines.
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 18
\*L/dev/pr0\*O
Generic Prestoserve control device.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpresto\*O(8), \*Ldxpresto\*O(8X), \*Lpresto\*O(7), \*Lportmap\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
