.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: prestosetup.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/22 15:24:11 $
.\"
.TH prestosetup 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lprestosetup\*O \- Configures the Prestoserve software
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/prestosetup\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "prestosetup command"
.\"
The \*Lprestosetup\*O command is an interactive facility that allows you
to set up Prestoserve on your system.  Prestoserve
speeds up synchronous disk writes, including NFS server access, by
reducing the amount of disk I/O.  The \*Lprestosetup\*O command
also allows you to modify the Prestoserve configuration on your
system.
.PP
In order to use Prestoserve, your system must contain the necessary
Prestoserve hardware.
.PP
The \*Lprestosetup\*O command verifies that the Prestoserve license is
registered, the Prestoserve utilities are installed, and
the Prestoserve software is configured into your kernel.
Note that some Prestoserve hardware configurations
require different forms of kernel configuration.  If the Prestoserve
hardware was installed in your system when the operating system was
installed, the Prestoserve software will be automatically configured
into your kernel.  If not, you may have to rebuild your kernel to
include the correct Prestoserve controller device before you run
\*Lprestosetup\*O.
.PP
The \*Lprestosetup\*O command configures Prestoserve on your system by
asking the following questions:
.VL 2m
.LI
Do you want Prestoserve automatically enabled at system startup?
.LI
Which file systems do you want to accelerate?
To specify a file system, use the mount point.  Do not specify a block
device because some functional subsystems, such as the
Advanced File System (advfs), can map more than one block device to
a mount point.
.LI
Do you want to start the \*Lprestoctl_svc\*O daemon to allow remote client
systems to monitor or administer a Prestoserve cache and its driver?
.LI
Do you want to start Prestoserve now?
.LE
.PP
After you have entered the necessary information, the \*Lprestosetup\*O
command displays the information that you entered and prompts you to
confirm that the information is correct.  If the information is not
correct, the \*Lprestosetup\*O command exits and no changes are made.
If the information is correct, the \*Lprestosetup\*O command does the
following:
.VL 2m
.LI
Creates the \*L/dev/pr0\*O Prestoserve control device if necessary.
.LI
Creates the \*L/etc/prestotab\*O file and includes the mount points for the
file systems that you want automatically accelerated when the
system starts up.
.LI
Updates the \*L/etc/rc.config\*O file and sets the appropriate run-time
configuration variables.
.LI
Updates the \*L/sbin/init.d/presto\*O startup script with the
Prestoserve configuration information from the \*L/etc/rc.config\*O file.
.LE
.PP
If you choose not to automatically enable Prestoserve when you start up
the system, you must manually start the \*Lprestoctl_svc\*O daemon and
use the \*Lpresto\*O command to accelerate the file systems.
.PP
The \*Lprestosetup\*O command also allows you to modify the Prestoserve
configuration on your system.  For example, you may want to
add additional file systems to the list in the
\*L/etc/prestotab\*O file.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/etc/prestotab\*O"
Lists the mount points for the file systems that you want automatically
accelerated when the system starts up.
.LE
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lpresto\*O(8), \*Lprestotab\*O(4), \*Lprestoctl_svc\*O(8)
.PP
\*VGuide to Prestoserve\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
