.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: printpw.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/09/21 09:17:57 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"printpw1.man
.\" nm_03.08.90
.TH printpw 8
.SH NAME
\*Lprintpw \*O \- Outputs the contents of the password database
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*Lprintpw\*O [\*L-acdgsu\*O]
.sE 
.SH "FLAGS"
.VL
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Outputs all information. Use of this flag is the same as specifying
all flags with \*L-cdgsu\*O.
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Outputs username and the comment string.
.LI "\*L-d\*O"
Output username and the login directory.
.LI "\*L-g\*O"
Outputs username and the group ID numerical value.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Output username and the login shell.
.LI "\*L-u\*O"
Output username and the UID numerical value.
.LE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
The \*Lprintpw\*O command outputs the contents of the
\*L/etc/passwd\*O database file in ASCII format to the standard
output. When \*Lprintpw\*O is called with no option, all usernames in
the database are output.
.PP 
The \*L/etc/passwd\*O database file is accessed through the standard
library function \*Lgetpwent\*O. On secure systems that have changed this
library function or on systems with Network Information Service (NIS) service
installed, \*Lprintpw\*O produces the same information. 
.PP 
When \*Lprintpw\*O is called in combination with any flag, one or more
additional columns separated with \*L:\*O (colon) is output.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
To output the username, UID, and login directory of all users
in the password database file, enter:
.iS
/usr/sbin/acct/printpw -ud
.iE
.SH "FILES"
.PP 
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/acct/printpw\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O"
The password database file.
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands: \*Lacct\*O(8) 
.EQ
delim off
.EN
