.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pvchange.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:42:27 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.TH pvchange 8
.SH NAME
\*Lpvchange\*O \- Changes the characteristics of a physical volume in a volume group
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/usr/sbin/pvchange\*O \*L\-x\*O \*VExtensibility\*L \*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP 
.iX "pvchange command"
The \*Lpvchange\*O command changes
the characteristics and state of a physical volume in a volume group
by setting the allocation permission for additional physical extents
on the physical volume to either \*Lallowed\*O or \*Lprohibited\*O.
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L\-x\*O \*VExtensibility\*O"
Sets the allocation permission
for additional physical extents on the physical volume specified by the
\*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O argument.  The
\*VExtensibility\*O argument is represented by one of the following:
.VL
.LI "\*Ly\*O"
Allows the allocation of additional physical extents
on the physical volume.
.LI "\*Ln\*O"
Prohibits the allocation of additional physical extents
on the physical volume.  You can, however, access the logical volumes
that reside on the physical volume.
.LE 
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\" .AL
.\" .LI
.\" To prohibit the allocation of additional physical extents to
.\" physical volume \*Lhdisk03\*O, enter:
.\" .iS
.\" pvchange  \-x n /dev/hdisk03
.\" .iE
.\" Additional physical extents to \*Lhdisk03\*O are prohibited.
.\" .LI
.\" To allow the allocation of additional physical extents to physical
.\" volume \*Lhdisk03\*O, enter:
.\" .iS
.\" pvchange \-x y /dev/hdisk03
.\" .iE
.\" Additional physical extents to \*Lhdisk03\*O are allowed.
.\" .LE 
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Digital device-specific examples
This section contains Digital device-specific examples.
.AL
.LI
To prohibit the allocation of additional physical extents to
physical volume \*Lrz1c\*O, enter:
.iS
pvchange  -x n /dev/rz1c
.iE
Additional physical extents to \*Lrz1c\*O are prohibited.
.LI
To allow the allocation of additional physical extents to physical
volume \*Lrz1c\*O, enter:
.iS
pvchange -x y /dev/rz1c
.iE
Additional physical extents to \*Lrz1c\*O are allowed.
.LE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/pvchange\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lpvcreate\*O(8), \*Lpvdisplay\*O(8), \*Lpvmove\*O(8)
.iX "pvchange command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
