.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pvcreate.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:43:59 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.TH pvcreate 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lpvcreate\*O \- Creates a physical volume that can be used as part of a volume group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/pvcreate\*O [\*L\-bf\*O] [\*L\-t\*O \*VDiskType\*O] \*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "pvcreate command"
The \*Lpvcreate\*O command initializes a direct access storage device
(a raw block device) for use as a physical volume in a volume group.
The \*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O parameter specifies the pathname of the
raw device to be used.
.PP
If
\*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O contains a file system,
you are asked for confirmation if your command entry does not include
the \*L\-f\*O flag.  The request for confirmation avoids the accidental
deletion of a file system.  Currently, BSD and System V file systems are
recognized.
.PP
The operation is denied if
\*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O belongs to another volume group.
Only physical volumes not belonging to other volume groups can be created.
.PP
If \*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O contains a disk label, it is updated to
reflect that \*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O is now a physical volume that
can be installed in a volume group.
.PP
After you create a physical volume with the \*Lpvcreate\*O command,
you can add it to a new volume group with the
\*Lvgcreate\*O command, or to an existing volume group with the
\*Lvgextend\*O command.
.PP
You can not add a raw device to a volume group if it has not
been initialized with the \*Lpvcreate\*O command.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L\-b\*O"
Used to specify (on standard input) the numbers that correspond to
the indexes of all known bad blocks on the physical volume,
\*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O, that you are creating.  Specify the
indexes with decimal, octal, or hexadecimal numbers
using the C language conventional formats;
use the newline, tab, or formfeed character to separate each number.
If you do not use this flag, it is presumed that the physical
volume contains no bad blocks.
.LI "\*L\-f\*O"
Forces the creation of a physical volume (thus deleting any
file system present) without first requesting confirmation.
Currently BSD and System V file systems are recognized.
.LI "\*L\-t\*O \*VDiskType\*O"
Used to retrieve configuration information about the physical volume
from the \*L/etc/disktab\*O file.  Specify the device (\*Lrz23\*O,
for example) with the \*VDiskType\*O parameter.
.sp
\*LNOTE\*O: If the physical volume does not contain any disklabel, the
command will complain. The command must then be executed
one more time with this flag set.
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
We strongly recommend that you check the manufacturer's listing, or
run diagnostics testing for bad blocks on the device prior to creating
a physical volume.  If bad blocks are present, use the \*L\-b\*O flag
when creating the physical volume.
.PP
The Logical Volume Manager (LVM) subsystem supports only one physical
volume per disk; that is, only one partition on a disk unit can be
allocated for LVM use.  Also, the boot disk should not contain an LVM
physical volume.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\" .AL
.\" .LI
.\" To create a physical volume on the raw device \*L/dev/hdisk1\*O that contains
.\" a disklabel, and to force the creation without confirmation, enter:
.\" .iS
.\" pvcreate \*L\-f \*L/dev/hdisk1
.\" .iE
.\" .LI
.\" To create a physical volume on the raw device \*L/dev/hdisk1\*O that does not
.\" contain a disklabel, and to get confirmation by default, enter:
.\" .iS
.\" pvcreate \-t rz23 /dev/hdisk1
.\" .iE
.\" .LI
.\" To create a physical volume on the raw device \*L/dev/hdisk1,\*O specifying
.\" that a bad blocks list (\*L7 13 95 133\*O) must be read from standard
.\" input, enter:
.\" .iS
.\" echo 7 13 95 133 | pvcreate \-b /dev/hdisk1
.\" .iE
.\" .LE 
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Digital device-specific examples
This section contains Digital device-specific examples.
.AL
.LI
To create a physical volume on the raw device \*L/dev/rrz1c\*O that
contains
a disklabel, and to force the creation without confirmation, enter:
.iS
pvcreate \*L-f \*L/dev/rrz1c
.iE
.LI
To create a physical volume on the raw device \*L/dev/rrz1c\*O that
does not
contain a disklabel, and to get confirmation by default, enter:
.iS
pvcreate -t rz23 /dev/rrz1c
.iE
.LI
To create a physical volume on the raw device \*L/dev/rrz1c,\*O
specifying
that a bad blocks list (\*L7 13 95 133\*O) must be read from standard
input, enter:
.iS
echo 7 13 95 133 | pvcreate -b /dev/rrz1c
.iE
.LE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/pvcreate\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/etc/disktab\*O"
Specifies the database containing the disk geometry and disk partition
characteristics for all disk devices on the system
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands:  \*Lecho\*O(1), \*Lpvchange\*O(8), \*Lpvdisplay\*O(8),
\*Lpvmove\*O(8), \*Lvgcreate\*O(8), \*Lvgextend\*O(8)
.iX "pvcreate command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
