.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pvdisplay.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:45:28 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.TH pvdisplay 8
.SH NAME
\*Lpvdisplay\*O \- Displays information about one or more physical volumes within a volume group
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/usr/sbin/pvdisplay\*O [\*L\-v\*O] \*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O \&...
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "pvdisplay command"
.PP 
The \*Lpvdisplay\*O command displays information about the physical 
volume(s) specified with the
\*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O parameter.  If you use the
\*L\-v\*O (verbose) flag, the program displays a map of the logical extents
that correspond to the physical extents of each physical volume.
.PP 
If you use the
\*Lpvdisplay\*O command without any flags, the program displays the
characteristics of each physical volume that you specified with the
\*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O parameter, namely:
.VL
.LI "\*LPV Name\*O"
The name of the physical volume
.LI "\*LVG Name\*O"
The name of the volume group
.LI "\*LPV Status\*O"
The state of the physical volume: available or unavailable
.LI "\*LAllocatable\*O"
The allocation permission for the physical volume
.LI "\*LVGDA\*O"
The number of volume group descriptors on the physical volume
.LI "\*LCur LV\*O"
The number of logical volumes using the physical volume
.LI "\*LPE Size\*O"
The size of physical extents on the volume
.LI "\*LTotal PE\*O"
The total number of physical extents on the physical volume
.LI "\*LFree PE\*O"
The number of free physical extents on the physical volume
.LI "\*LAllocated PE\*O"
The number of physical extents on the physical volume that
are allocated to logical volumes
.LI "\*LStale PE\*O"
The number of physical extents on the physical volume that are not current
.LE 
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L\-v\*O"
Lists additional information for each logical volume and for each
physical extent on the physical volume.
.PP
\*LDistribution of physical volume\*O: lists the logical volumes that
have extents allocated on \*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O:
.VL
.LI "\*LLV Name\*O"
The name of the logical volume which has extents
allocated on \*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O.
.LI "\*LLE of LV\*O"
The number of logical extents within the logical
volume that are contained on this physical volume.
.LI "\*LPE for LV\*O"
The number of physical extents within the
logical volume that are contained on this physical volume.
.LE
.PP
\*LPhysical extents\*O:  displays the following information for each 
physical extent:
.VL
.LI "\*LPE\*O"
The physical extent number.
.LI "\*LStatus\*O"
The state of the physical extent: free,
current, or stale.
.LI "\*LLV\*O"
The name of the logical volume to which the extent
is allocated.
.LI "\*LLE\*O"
The index of the logical extent to which the physical extent
is allocated.
.LE
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\" .AL
.\" .LI
.\" To display the status and characteristics of physical volume \*Lhdisk3\*O,
.\" enter:
.\" .iS
.\" pvdisplay /dev/hdisk3
.\" .iE
.\" .LI
.\" To display the status, characteristics, and allocation map
.\" of physical volume \*Lhdisk3\*O, enter:
.\" .iS
.\" pvdisplay \-v /dev/hdisk3
.\" .iE
.\" .LE 
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Digital device-specific examples.
This section contains Digital device-specific examples.
.AL
.LI
To display the status and characteristics of physical volume
\*Lrz1c\*O,
enter:
.iS
pvdisplay /dev/rz1c
.iE
.LI
To display the status, characteristics, and allocation map
of physical volume \*Lrz1c\*O, enter:
.iS
pvdisplay -v /dev/rz1c
.iE
.LE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/pvdisplay\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands:  \*Llvdisplay\*O(8), \*Lpvchange\*O(8), \*Lpvcreate\*O(8), 
\*Lpvmove\*O(8) \*Lvgcreate\*O(8), \*Lvgdisplay\*O(8)
.iX "pvdisplay command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
