.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pvmove.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:46:47 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.TH pvmove 8
.SH NAME
\*Lpvmove\*O \- Moves allocated physical extents from one physical volume to one or more other physical volumes
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*L/usr/sbin/pvmove\*O [\*L\-n\*O \*VLogicalVolumeName\*O] \*VSourcePhysicalVolumePath\*O [\*VDestinationPhysicalVolumePath\*O \&...]
.in -.5i
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "pvmove command"
.PP 
The
\*Lpvmove\*O command moves allocated physical extents
and the data they contain from the source physical volume,
\*VSourcePhysicalVolumePath\*O, to one
or more other physical volumes.  To limit the transfer to specific
physical volumes, specify the names of one or more physical 
volumes with the \*VDestinationPhysicalVolumePath\*O parameter.  
If you do not specify the destination volume(s), all of the
physical volumes in the volume group are available as destination
volumes for the transfer.  All physical volumes must be within the same 
volume group.  You must not include the
\*VSourcePhysicalVolumePath\*O in the list of
\*VDestinationPhysicalVolumePath\*O parameters.
.PP 
The \*Lpvmove\*O command will succeed only if there is enough space on the
\*VDestinationPhysicalVolumePath\*O to hold all the extents of the
\*VSourcePhysicalVolumePath\*O.
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L\-n\*O \*VLogicalVolumeName\*O"
Moves only the physical extents allocated to the logical volume
(specified with the \*VLogicalVolumeName\*O parameter) and located 
on the source physical volume (specified with the
\*VSourcePhysicalVolumePath\*O parameter) to the specified 
destination physical volume.
.LE 
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\" .AL
.\" .LI
.\" To move physical extents from \*Lhdisk1\*O to \*Lhdisk6\*O and \*Lhdisk7\*O,
.\" enter:
.\" .iS
.\" pvmove /dev/hdisk1  /dev/hdisk6  /dev/hdisk7
.\" .iE
.\" The program moves the physical extents from one physical volume to two
.\" others within the same volume group.
.\" .LI
.\" To move physical extents in logical volume \*Llv02\*O from \*Lhdisk1\*O to 
.\" \*Lhdisk6\*O, enter:
.\" .iS
.\" pvmove \-n /dev/vg01/lv02  /dev/hdisk1  /dev/hdisk6
.\" \*O
.\" .iE
.\" Only those physical extents contained in \*Llv02\*O
.\" are moved from one physical volume to another.
.\" .LE 
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Ditial device-specific examples.
This section contains Digital device-specific examples.
.AL
.LI
To move physical extents from \*Lrz1c\*O to \*Lrz6c\*O and
\*Lrz7c\*O,
enter:
.iS
pvmove /dev/rz1c  /dev/rz6c  /dev/rz7c
.iE
The program moves the physical extents from one physical volume to two
others within the same volume group.
.LI
To move physical extents in logical volume \*Llv02\*O from \*Lrz1c\*O
to
\*Lrz6c\*O, enter:
.iS
pvmove -n /dev/vg01/lv02  /dev/rz1c  /dev/rz6c
\*O
.iE
Only those physical extents contained in \*Llv02\*O
are moved from one physical volume to another.
.LE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/pvmove\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands: \*Lpvchange\*O(8), \*Lpvcreate\*O(8), \*Lpvdisplay\*O(8)
.iX "pvmove command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
