.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pwck.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 12:36:52 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH pwck 8
.SH NAME
\*Lpwck\*O, \*Lgrpck\*O \- Checks the password and group files for inconsistencies
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*Lpwck\*O [\*Vfile\*O]
.PP 
\*Lgrpck\*O [\*Vfile\*O]
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "pwck command"
.PP 
The \*Lpwck\*O command scans the \*L/etc/passwd\*O file, or the
named \*Vfile\*O, and writes to standard output any
inconsistencies.  The scan checks the number of fields,
login name, user ID, group ID, and existence of a login directory and
optional program name.
.PP 
The \*Lgrpck\*O command scans the \*L/etc/group\*O file, or the
named \*Vfile\*O, and writes to standard output any
inconsistencies.  The scan checks the number of fields,
group name, group ID, and whether all login names appear in the password
file.  \*Lgrpck\*O writes to standard output any group entries that
do not have login names.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To verify the password information in the \*L/etc/passwd\*O file
for consistency, enter:
.iS
pwck 
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/pwck\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/grpck\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O"
Contains user information
.LI "\*L/etc/group\*O"
Contains group information
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Ladduser\*O(8), \*Lgroups\*O(1), \*Lpasswd\*O(1), \*Lvipw\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
