.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: quot.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:48:23 $
.\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
...\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
...\" 
...\" 
...\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" 
...\"build rmifdef
.TH quot 8
.iX "quot command"
.iX "summarizing file system ownership"
.iX "file system" "ownership, summarizing"
.SH NAME
.PP 
\*Lquot\*O \- Summarizes file system ownership
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/usr/sbin/quot\*O [\*L\-cfn\*O] [\*Vfilesystem\*O \&...]
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP 
The \*Lquot\*O command displays the number of blocks in the
specified \*Vfilesystem\*O that are currently owned by each user.  If 
\*Vfilesystem\*O is not specified, a default name is used.
You must
be \*Lroot\*O
to use this command.
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L\-c\*O"
Displays three columns giving file size in blocks, the number of
files of that size, and cumulative total of blocks
in a file of that size or smaller.
.LI "\*L\-f\*O"
Displays the amount of space used and a count of number of files 
owned by each user.
.LI "\*L\-n\c\*O"
Causes the pipeline \*Lncheck filesystem | sort +0n | quot \-n filesystem\*O
to display a list of all files and their owners.
.LE 
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
The following command displays
the number of files and the space owned by each user
as well as the space owned by each user:
.iS
quot \-f /dev/rz1c
.iE
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/quot\*O"
Command path
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O"
Contains user information
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lls\*O(1), \*Ldu\*O(1)
.iX "quot command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
.EQ
delim off
.EN
