.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: quotaon.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/28 19:46:41 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\" 
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.TH quotaon 8
.SH NAME
\*Lquotaon\*O, \*Lquotaoff\*O \- Turns filesystem quotas on or off
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/usr/sbin/quotaon\*O [\*L\-guv\*O] \*Vfilesystem\*O \&...
.PP 
\*L/usr/sbin/quotaon\*O \*L\-a\*O [\*L\-guv\*O]
.PP 
\*L/usr/sbin/quotaoff\*O [\*L\-guv\*O] \*Vfilesystem\*O \&...
.PP 
\*L/usr/sbin/quotaoff\*O \*L\-a\*O [\*L\-guv\*O]
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "quotaon command"
.iX "quotaoff command"
.iX "turning file system quotas on and off"
.iX "file system" "quotas, turning on and off"
.iX "quota" "file system, turning on and off"
.PP
The \*Lquotaon\*O command announces to the system that disk quotas should
be enabled on one or more \*Vfilesystem\*Os.  The filesystems specified must
have entries in \*L/etc/fstab\*O and be mounted at the time.
.PP 
The \*Lquotaoff\*O command announces to the system that any disk quotas on the
specified \*Vfilesystem\*Os specified should be turned off. 
.PP 
\*Lquotaon\*O and \*Lquotaoff\*O must be run by a user
with superuser authority.
.PP 
These commands expect each filesystem to have quota files named
\*Lquota.user\*O and \*Lquota.group\*O in the root directory.
(These default file locations may be overridden in \*L/etc/fstab\*O.)
.PP 
By default both user and group quotas are turned on or off.
The \*L\-g\*O flag specifies that only group quotas should be affected;
the \*L\-u\*O flag specifies that only user quotas should be affected.
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L\-a\*O"
Turns on (with \*Lquotaon\*O) or turns off (with \*Lquotaoff\*O)
quotas for all filesystems identified in
\*L/etc/fstab\*O as read/write with quotas.
.LI "\*L\-g\*O"
Turns on or off group quotas only.
.LI "\*L\-u\*O"
Turns on or off user quotas only.
.LI "\*L\-v\*O"
Prints a message for each filesystem whose quotas are turned on
or off.
.LE 
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/quotaon\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/quotaoff\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "[\*Vfilesystem_root\*O]\*L/quota.user\*O"
Contains user quotas for \*Vfilesystem\*O
.LI "[\*Vfilesystem_root\*O]\*L/quota.group\*O"
Contains user quotas for \*Vfilesystem\*O
.LI "\*L/etc/fstab\*O"
Contains filesystem names and locations
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Ledquota\*O(8), \*Lfsck\*O(8), \*Lquota\*O(1), 
\*Lquotacheck\*O(8), \*Lrepquota\*O(8).
.PP 
Functions:  \*Lquotactl\*O(2).
.PP 
Files:  \*Lfstab\*O(4).
.iX "quotaoff command"
.iX "quotaon command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
