.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: quotacheck.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/28 19:46:29 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\" 
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.TH quotacheck 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lquotacheck\*O \- Checks file system quota consistency
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP
.sS 
\*L/usr/sbin/quotacheck\*O [\*L\-gruv\*O] \*Vfilesystem\*O \&...
.PP 
\*L/usr/sbin/quotacheck\*O \*L\-a\*O [\*L\-gruv\*O]
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "quotacheck command"
.iX "checking file system quota consistency"
.iX "file system" "quota consistency, checking"
.iX "quota" "file system, checking"
The \*Lquotacheck\*O command examines each specified \*Vfilesystem\*O,
builds a table of current disk usage,
and compares this table against that stored
in the disk quota file for the file system.
If any inconsistencies are detected, both the
quota file and the current system copy of the
incorrect quotas are updated (the latter only
occurs if an active file system is checked).  
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Added this per PRS
The \*Lquotacheck\*O
command only checks file systems that have the \*Luserquota\*O or
\*Lgroupquota\*O option specified in the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP 
The \*Lquotacheck\*O command must be run by a user
with superuser authority.
.PP 
By default both user and group quotas listed in \*L/etc/fstab\*O are checked.
The \*L\-g\*O flag specifies that only group quotas should be checked;
the \*L\-u\*O flag specifies that only user quotas should be checked.
.PP 
The \*Lquotacheck\*O command 
does not report on any inconsistencies, or any of its
activities, unless you use the \*L\-v\*O flag.
.PP 
The \*Lquotacheck\*O command runs parallel passes on file systems
using the pass numbers specified in the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file 
in the same way that the \*Lfsck\*O command runs the passes.  
The \*Lquotacheck\*O command expects each file system to
be checked to have quota files named \*Lquota.user\*O and \*Lquota.group\*O
in the root directory.  (These default file locations can be overridden in
the \*Letc/fstab\*O file.)  If these files do not exist, \*Lquotacheck\*O
creates them.
.PP 
The \*Lquotacheck\*O command is normally invoked before enabling disk
quotas with the \*Lquotaon\*O command.
.\" run at boot time from the
.\" \*L/etc/rc.local\*O file (see \*Lrc\*O) before enabling disk quotas with
.\" \*Lquotaon\*O.
.PP 
The \*Lquotacheck\*O command accesses the raw device in calculating the actual
disk usage for each user.  Thus, the file systems checked should be quiescent
while \*Lquotacheck\*O
is running.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L\-a\*O"
Checks all file systems identified in \*L/etc/fstab\*O as read/write
with disk quotas.
.LI "\*L\-g\*O"
Checks group quotas only.
.LI "\*L\-r\*O"
Checks each file system twice, ensuring that disk quotas include the
quota files themselves, which can be lengthened during the first
quota check.
.LI "\*L\-u\*O"
Checks user quotas only.
.LI "\*L\-v\*O"
Reports discrepancies between the calculated and recorded disk quotas.
.LE 
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/quotacheck\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/fsck\*O"
Specifies the file systems check program
.LI "[\*Vfilesystem_root\*O]\*L/quota.user\*O"
Contains user quotas for \*Vfilesystem\*O
.LI "[\*Vfilesystem_root\*O]\*L/quota.group\*O"
Contains user quotas for \*Vfilesystem\*O
.LI "\*L/etc/fstab\*O"
Contains filesystem names and locations
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Ledquota\*O(8), \*Lfsck\*O(8), \*Lquota\*O(1), \*Lquotaon\*O(8),
\*Lrepquota\*O(8).
.PP 
Functions:  \*Lquotactl\*O(2).
.PP 
Files:  \*Lfstab\*O(4).
.iX "quotacheck command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
