.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.TH radisk 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lradisk\*O \- Digital Storage Architecture (DSA) disk maintenance program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /sbin/radisk
.B \-c 
.I LBN
.I length
.I special
.br
.B /sbin/radisk
.B \-e
.I special
.br
.B /sbin/radisk
.B \-n
.I special
.br
.B /sbin/radisk
.B \-r
.I LBN
.I special
.br
.B /sbin/radisk
.B \-s
.I LBN
.I length
.I special
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "radisk program"
.iX "DSA disk" "managing"
The \*Lradisk\*O Digital Storage Architecture (DSA) disk maintenance program
allows you to maintain DSA 
disk devices. The \*Lradisk\*O
command must be used on unmounted disk partitions to ensure correct
results.
.PP
The \*VLBN\*O
is a decimal number that represents the logical block number as
reported in the errorlog file.  The \*VLBN\*O
is the actual disk block number
starting from the beginning of the disk. 
.PP
The \*Vlength\*O
is a decimal number that indicates how many (512 byte) blocks to
process.  The length specified can be \*L\-1\*O
to indicate the last block of the specified partition.
.PP
The \*Vspecial\*O
file specified is used with \*L\-c, \-e, \-n,\*O
and \*L\-r\*O
options and indicates an unmounted \*Lc\*O
partition of a character device special file.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
The following flags can be used with \*Lradisk\*O:
.iX "radisk utility" "options"
.VL
.LI "\*L\-c\*O"
Clears a forced error indicator on the range of specified LBNs.  The
forced error condition indicates that the data in the disk block is
bad.  The disk block is good, but the data can not be read without
getting an error detection code (EDC) error.  This option causes the
forced error condition to be removed.  After the forced error indicator
is cleared, the EDC error is not reported nor will the data be
marked as bad.  The
data should be restored either by manual methods or with the 
\*Lrestore\*O command. The \*Lradisk\*O
command affects the integrity of the data on a disk and should be
followed by a file system restore if data is affected.
.LI "\*L\-e\*O"
Sets the exclusive access attribute associated with the specified disk.  This
attribute is provided by multihost controllers to restrict access to a disk
to one host.  The \*Lradisk\*O
command returns a failure status if the disk is already exclusively 
associated with another host or the underlying controller does not provide
multihost support.
If the 
command is issued to a disk that is currently mounted and the command fails,
the disk is no longer on line to this host.  For this reason the
\*L\-e\*O option should not be issued to a disk that is mounted.
.LI "\*L\-n\*O"
Clears the exclusive access attribute associated with the specified disk.  
If the controller provides multihost support and the exclusive access attribute
is not set for a particular disk, it would be possible for the disk to be 
accessed by more than one host.
The \*Lradisk\*O
command returns a failure status if the disk is not currently and exclusively
associated with this host or the underlying controller does not provide
multihost support.
.IP "\*L\-r\*O"
Replaces a block on the disk specified by LBN. See Restrictions.
.IP "\*L\-s\*O"
Starts a scan for bad blocks on the specified area on a disk. Bad blocks
are disk blocks that have data transfer errors to the extent that they
cannot be relied on.  When a bad block is found, it is replaced and the
bad block's LBN is reported.  The LBN specified with the
\*L\-s\*O
option can be \*L0\*O
to indicate the first block in the specified partition.  If 
\*L0\*O
is specified, however, the program starts searching from the first block 
of the partition. The \*L\-s\*O
option accepts any valid partition on the disk. This allows any
partition to be scanned without scanning the entire disk and ensures
that the specified partition is free of bad blocks. As an example,
\*L/dev/rra3h\*O indicates the \*Lh\*O
partition of the third logical disk unit.
.LE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
You must be in single-user mode when using the \*L\-c\*O, \*L\-r\*O,
and \*L\-s\*O
options of the \*Lradisk\*O
program.  If you are in multiuser mode, \*Lradisk\*O
hangs the system and cannot be killed.  If this happens, you must reboot.
.PP
The \*L\-r\*O
option is supported only with those DSA disks which use host-initiated
dynamic bad block replacement. 
.PP
The \*L\-e\*O and \*L\-n\*O
options are only supported on controllers that provide multi-host support.
These options are only supported on HSC Version 5.00 or later.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The \*Lradisk\*O
program generates messages when the user is not privileged, when the
LBN is not in the specified partition, and when the length exceeds the
size of the partition.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.\" dkio(4), 
ra(7), disklabel(8), mount(8), restore(8)
.\" .br
.\" \*ESystem Administration\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
.EQ
delim off
.EN
