.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rarpd.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/05 19:38:05 $
.\"
.TH rarpd 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lrarpd\*O \- Reverse address resolution protocol (RARP) daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/rarpd\*O [ \*Vinterface\*O ] [ \*L-v\*O ] [ \*L-n\*O ] [ \*L-f \*Vfilename\*O ]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.iX "rarpd program" "flags"
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vinterface\*O"
Specifies the system's network interface.
.LI "\*L-v\*O"
Causes \*Lrarpd\*O
to operate in verbose mode. This option logs details of RARP
to \*Lsyslog\*O.
The instance of a RARP request and its response are
also logged.
.LI " \*L-n\*O"
Disables checking of the \*Lethers\*O(4)
file.  By default, \*Lrarpd\*O checks the \*Lethers\*O
file once every ten minutes, and, if the file was modified,
\*Lrarpd\*O rereads the file.
If you specify the \*L-n\*O
option \*Lrarpd\*O scans the \*L/etc/ethers\*O
file once at startup time.
.LI "\*L-f \*Vfilename\*O"
Reads an alternate Ethernet address file.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "rarpd program" "description"
.iX "Reverse Address Resolution Protocol Daemon" "rarpd program"
The \*Lrarpd\*O daemon maps the Ethernet address of a machine
to the machine's Internet Protocol (IP) address.
.PP
When \*Lrarpd\*O
is invoked, it reads the \*L/etc/ethers\*O
file (by default) and waits to process a RARP request.
The \*L/etc/ethers\*O
file is checked every ten minutes for any changes.  If the file
has been modified, \*Lrarpd\*O
reads it again. You can disable this feature
with the \*L-n\*O option. You can force a scan of the \*L/etc/ethers\*O
file by sending the \*Lrarpd\*O
daemon a SIGHUP signal.  See \*Lsignal\*O(3)
for more information on SIGHUP.
.PP
The format of the \*L/etc/ethers\*O
file is described in \*Lethers\*O(4).
You can specify a file other than \*L/etc/ethers\*O
with the \*L-f\*O option.  The \*Vinterface\*O
is the network interface on which the \*Lrarpd\*O
daemon should listen. The command \*Lnetstat -i\*O
shows the correct interface or interfaces for your system.
The \*Lrarpd\*O daemon uses the first interface it finds, if you do not specify
an interface.  See the \*Lnetstat\*O(1)
reference page for more information.
.PP
Because the \*Lrarpd\*O
daemon has been implemented with the Ethernet Packet Filter (see
\*Lpacketfilter\*O(7)),
you must configure your kernel
with the packet filter option in order for \*Lrarpd\*O
to function properly.
The packet filter detects RARP broadcast packets and passes
them to \*Lrarpd\*O
for processing. The filter priority for \*Lrarpd\*O is set to 28.
.PP
All messages from the \*Lrarpd\*O
daemon are directed to \*Lsyslog\*O.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The \*Lrarpd\*O
daemon ignores all ARP requests sent encapsulated
within a RARP packet. ARP requests are handled directly by the kernel.
.PP
The machine for which an IP address is being requested must
be present in the server's \*L/etc/hosts\*O file.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The following message printed to the console window, and is also logged
to \*Lsyslog\*O if the Packet Filter is not configured in your kernel:
.oS
.sp
PACKETFILTER is not configured in /vmunix
.sp
.oE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L/etc/ethers\*O"
Database that maps Ethernet addresses to hostnames
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Larp\*O(8), \*Lifconfig\*O(8), \*Lsyslogd\*O(8)
.PP
Files: \*Lethers\*O(4), \*Lhosts\*O(4), \*Lpacketfilter\*O(7)
.PP
Routines: \*Lethers\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
