.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rc0.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 12:37:30 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH rc0 8
.SH NAME
\*Lrc0\*O \- Runs command script executed when stopping the system
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*Lrc0\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "rc0 command"
.PP 
The \*Lrc0\*O script contains run commands that enable a smooth 
shutdown and bring the system to a single-user state; run levels 0 and s.
In addition to commands listed in within the script itself,
\*Lrc0\*O contains instructions to run commands found in the
\*L/sbin/rc0.d\*O directory.  The script defines the conditions under 
which the commands execute; some commands run if the system is being
shut down while others
run if the system is being shut down and rebooted to single user.
.PP 
By convention, files in the
\*L/sbin/rc0.d\*O
directory begin with either the letter "K" or the letter "S" and
are followed by a two-digit number and a filename, for example:
.oS
K00enlogin     K05lpd     K60cron     K30nfs
.oE 
.PP 
In general, the system starts commands that begin with the letter "S"
and stops commands that begin with the letter "K."
The numbering of commands in the \*L/sbin/rc0.d\*O
directory is important since the numbers are sorted and the commands
are run in ascending order.  Files in the \*L/sbin/rc0.d\*O
directory are normally links to files in the \*L/etc/init.d\*O directory.
.PP 
An entry in the \*Linittab\*O file causes the system to execute the
\*Lrc0\*O script, for example:
.oS
ss:Ss:wait:/sbin/rc0 shutdown < /dev/console > /dev/console 2>&1
s0:0:wait:/sbin/rc0 off < /dev/console > /dev/console 2>&1
.oE
.PP
The following operations are typical of those that result from executing
the \*Lrc0\*O script and the commands located in the
\*L/sbin/rc0.d\*O directory:
.ML
.LI
Notify users that the system is shutting down.
.LI
Sync the disks
.LI
Stop system services and daemons
.LI
Stop processes
.LI
Kill processes
.LI
Unmount file systems
.LI
Invoke init if the system is being shut down to single user
.LE 
.PP 
The \*Lkillall\*O command sends a \*LSIGTERM\*O signal to stop running 
processes; \*LSIGKILL\*O follows
to kill all processes except the process which initiated the call.  The
\*Lumount -a\*O command unmounts all file systems except the root file system.
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/sbin/rc0\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/sbin/rc0.d\*O"
Specifies the directory of commands that corresponds to the run level
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands: \*Linit\*O(8), \*Lkillall\*O(8), \*Lrc2\*O(8),
\*Lrc3\*O(8), \*Lshutdown\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
