.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\" 
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" 
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" 
.TH rcinet 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lrcinet\*O \- Restarts, starts, or stops Internet network services on the system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/rcinet\*O \*Voption\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "rcinet"
.iX "Internet network services"
.iX "network servies" "Internet"
The \*Lrcinet\*O script allows system administrators to restart,
start, or stop the Internet network services on the system while it
is running in multiuser mode by using one of the options.
.SS Options
You must specify one of the following options with the \*Lrcinet\*O
command:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lrestart\*O"
Restarts the network on the system.
.LI "\*Lstart\*O"
Starts the network on the system.
.LI "\*Lstop\*O"
Stops the network on the system.
.LE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Superuser privilege is required.
.PP
Warn users that the system is being removed from the network.
.PP
File systems that were not mounted using the
\*L/etc/fstab\*O file or the \*Lautomount\*O command must be unmounted
with the \*Lumount\*O command. You must remount these file systems using the
\*Lmount\*O command after the network is started on your system.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The \*Lrcinet\*O script prints an error message to \*Lstderr\*O if the
network is not configured on the system.
.SH FILES
.PP
The network shell scripts are located
in \*L/sbin/init.d\*O with symbolic links in \*L/sbin/rc0.d\*O and
\*L/sbin/rc3.d\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lmount\*O(8)
.PP
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
