.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rcmgr.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/01 14:21:19 $
.\"
.TH rcmgr 8
.SH NAME
\*Lrcmgr\*O, \*Lrc.config\*O \- Gets and sets run-time configuration variables stored in the files \*L/etc/rc.config\*O and \*L/etc/rc.config.site\*O
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/rcmgr\*O \*Lset\*O \*Vvariable\*O \*Vvalue\*O
.br
\*L/usr/sbin/rcmgr\*O \*Lget\*O \*Vvariable\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "rcmgr command"
.PP
The \*Lrcmgr\*O command retrieves and sets run-time configuration variables stored
in \*L/etc/rc.config\*O and \*L/etc/rc.config.site\*O.  These variables are used to
configure various subsystems (for example, NFS or NTP) by scripts in the
\*L/sbin/init.d\*O directory.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.TP
\*Lset\*O
Sets the \*Vvariable\*O to \*Vvalue\*O in the \*L/etc/rc.config\*O file.
.TP
\*Lget\*O
Looks for variables in \*L/etc/rc.config\*O. If the variable
is not found, the \*Lget\*O operation looks for the variable in
\*L/etc/rc.config.site\*O. This allows an administrator to use a common
configuration in a local area network. The administrator can create and
distribute a common \*L/etc/rc.config.site\*O file.
Node-specific information should stay in \*L/etc/rc.config\*O.
.sp
The \*Lget\*O option allows a programmer to specify a default value for an option
if it is not found in either the \*L/etc/rc.config\*O or the
\*L/etc/rc.config.local\*O files.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.iS
\*Lrcmgr set HOSTNAME yukio\*O
.iE
This example sets the variable \*LHOSTNAME\*O to \*Lyukio\*O in the
\*L/etc/rc.config\*O file.
.iS
\*Lrcmgr set IFCONFIG_0 111.111.1.11 netmask 255.255.252.0\*O
.iE
This example sets the variable \*LIFCONFIG_0\*O to
"\*L111.111.1.11 netmask 255.255.252.0\*O" in the \*L/etc/rc.config\*O file.
.iS
\*Lrcmgr get NIS_ARGS\*O
.iE
This example displays the value the variable \*LNIS_ARGS\*O. If this variable
is not set in the \*L/etc/rc.config\*O file, then the \*Lrcmgr\*O
command looks in the \*L/etc/rc.config.site\*O file for the variable.
.PP
Startup scripts can use the \*Lget\*O operation to provide values to variables
as in the following examples:
.iS
\*Lhost=`rcmgr get HOSTNAME`\*O
.iE
This example sets the value of \*Lhost\*O to the value of \*LHOSTNAME\*O in the
\*L/etc/rc.config\*O file.
.iS
\*Lnum_nfsd=`rcmgr get NUM_NFSD 4`\*O
.iE
This example sets \*Lnum_nfsd\*O to 4 if \*LNUM_NFSD\*O does not exist
in the \*L/etc/rc.config\*O file or in the \*L/etc/rc.config.site\*O file.
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/etc/rc.config\*O
.br
\*L/etc/rc.config.site\*O
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*ESystem Administration\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
