.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rdate.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 14:55:34 $
.\"
.TH rdate 8
.SH NAME
rdate \- network date client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /usr/sbin/rdate
[
.B \-s
] [
.B \-v
] [
\*Vnetwork\*O
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "rdate command"
.iX "system" "resetting date"
.iX "system" "resetting time"
The \*Lrdate\*O command is invoked at boot
time to reset the system date and time to
the current network date and time.
The \*Lrdate\*O program sends a broadcast datagram
packet on the specified network
or on the system default network if no network is specified.
The program will then wait two seconds for responses.  After that
time, the arithmetic median of the responses is taken.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP \f3\-s\f1 0.3i
The system date and time will be set to the median value.
.IP \f3\-v\f1 0.3i
The time values returned by all responding hosts will
be reported.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
In order for \*Lrdate\*O to determine a network
time, at least one of the running hosts
on the network must be running the internet time service.
Machines with their own battery-backed-up time-of-day clock
may not desire to set time in this manner.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Ldate\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
