.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: reboot.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:49:36 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\" 
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.TH reboot 8
.SH NAME
\*Lreboot\*O \- Restarts the machine
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/usr/sbin/reboot\*O [\*L-lnq\*O]
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "reboot command"
.iX "restarting the machine"
.iX "machine" "restarting"
.PP 
The \*Lreboot\*O command normally stops all running processes, syncs 
the disks, logs
the reboot, and writes a shutdown entry in the login accounting file, 
\*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O.
If you specify the \*L\-l\*O flag, logging is omitted.
If you specify the \*L\-n\*O flag, the logging and disk sync are omitted.
If you specify the \*L\-q\*O flag, the shutdown is abrupt; processes are 
not stopped prior to the shutdown, and the logging is omitted.
.PP 
When the system is running and multiple users are logged in,
use the \*Lshutdown \-r\*O command to perform a reboot operation.
If no users are logged in, use the \*Lreboot\*O command.
.PP 
The \*Lreboot\*O command uses the \*Lsync\*O call to synchronize
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Changed 'to to' in the following line to 'to' per QAR 5991.
the disks, and to perform other shutdown activities such as resynchronizing
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
the hardware time-of-day clock.  After these activities, the system reboots.
By default, the system starts and the file systems are automatically checked.
If the start-up activities are successful, the system comes up in the
default run-level.
You must have
\*Lroot\*O privileges
to use this command.
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L\-l\*O"
Does not log the reboot using \*Lsyslog\*O
.LI "\*L\-n\*O"
Does not sync the disks or log the reboot using \*Lsyslog\*O
.LI "\*L\-q\*O"
Performs a quick reboot without first shutting down running processes; does not
log the reboot using \*Lsyslog\*O
.LE 
.SH EXAMPLES
.AL
.LI
To enable the default reboot action, enter:
.iS
reboot
.iE
This command causes the system to stop all running processes,
sync the disks, log the shutdown, and perform other
routine shutdown and reboot activities.
.LI
To shut down the system without
logging the reboot, enter:
.iS
reboot -l
.iE
This command shuts down the system and performs
all shutdown and reboot activities, except\*O logging
the shutdown.
.LI
To reboot the system abruptly, enter:
.iS
reboot -q
.iE
This command reboots the system abruptly without
shutting down running processes.
.LE 
.SH CAUTIONS
.PP 
Using the \*L\-n\*O flag can result in file system damage.
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/reboot\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O"
Specifies the login accounting file
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/syslogd\*O"
Specifies the path of the syslog daemon
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lfsck\*O(8), \*Lhalt\*O(8), \*Linit\*O(8), \*Lshutdown\*O(8), 
\*Lsyslogd\*O(8)
.PP 
Functions:  \*Lsync\*O(2), \*Lsyslog\*O(3)
.iX "reboot command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
