.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: removeuser.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:22:23 $
.\"
.TH removeuser 8
.SH NAME
\*Lremoveuser\*O \- Deletes user accounts interactively
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/removeuser\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "removeuser command"
.iX "user" "removing a"
.iX "user" "deleting a"
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBSecurity Note\fP
.sp 6p
.rS 5
If you have enhanced security installed on your system,
you should use the \*LXSysAdmin\*O the windowing interface to remove users.
See the
\*EEnhanced Security\*O
and the \*LXSysAdmin\*O(8) reference page for more information.
.sp 6p
.rE
.PP
The \*Lremoveuser\*O command is an interactive program for deleting user
accounts from your system.  It also gives the option of deleting the user's
home directory, files and mail.  The program prompts you for specific
information and informs you of its activity and error conditions.
.PP
Only the superuser can execute this command.
.PP
The program performs the following tasks:
.ML
.LI
Asks for a login name for the user to be deleted.  Enter the
login name.  If this entry does not exist in the \*L/etc/passwd\*O file, the
program informs you of this and exits.  If the entry does exist, the
program continues.
.LI
Displays the entry for the user from the \*L/etc/passwd\*O file and asks
if this is the entry you wish to delete.  If the answer to this query
is \*Lno\*O, the program indicates that the user was not deleted and then
exits.  If the answer to this query is \*Lyes\*O, the program deletes the
user's entry from the \*L/etc/passwd\*O file and any occurrences of the user
from the \*L/etc/group\*O file.  It then states that the user was deleted.
.LI
Searches several administrative directories and files for occurrences
of the user and informs you if they exist.  If so, it suggests that you
may wish to delete these occurrences when the program is finished.
If no occurrences of the user are found in these directories and files,
the program indicates so.
.LI
Asks if you want to delete the home directory, all subdirectories,
and all mail files for the user.  If the answer to this query
is \*Lno\*O, the program indicates that the user's home directory was not
deleted and then exits.  If the answer to this query is \*Lyes\*O, the program
continues.
.sp
As a precaution, the program reminds you that you should have backed up
the files for the user before removing them if you do not wish to lose
them.  It then asks if you are sure that you want to delete the files for
this user.  If the answer to this query is \*Lno\*O, the program indicates that
the user's home directory was not deleted and then exits.  If the answer
to this query is \*Lyes\*O, the program states that it is removing the
user's home directory, its contents and the user's mail file.  It then
deletes these items.
.LE
At this point, the program ends.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
\f(CWEnter a login name to be removed or <Return> to exit: \*O \*Sjohn\*O
.br
\f(CWThis is the entry for (john) in the /etc/passwd file:\*O
.iS
\f(CWjohn:VSh6/xbMqPDcY:5006:15:sdf:/usr/users/john: \*O
.iE
\f(CWIs this the entry you want to delete (y/n)? \*O \*Sy\*O
.br
\f(CWWorking ...\*O
.br
\f(CWEntry for (john) removed.\*O
.br
\f(CWSearching relevant directories and files for (john) ...\*O
.br
\f(CWNone found.\*O
.br
\f(CWDo you want to remove the home directory, all subdirectories,\*O
.br
\f(CWfiles, and mail for (john) (y/n)? \*O \*Sy\*O
.br
\f(CWThe files for (john) will be lost if not backed up.
.br
\f(CWAre you sure you want to remove these files (y/n)? \*O \*Sy\*O
.br
\f(CWDeleting /usr/users/john\*O
.br
\f(CWDeleting /usr/spool/mail/john\*O
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 10m
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/removeuser\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Laddgroup\*O(8), \*Ladduser\*O(8), \*Lfinger\*O(1),
\*Lmkpasswd\*O(8), \*Lpasswd\*O(1), \*Lvipw\*O(8)
.PP
.VL 7m
Files:
.LI "\*L/etc/group\*O"
Group file
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O"
Password file
.LI "\*L/etc/ptmp\*O"
Lock file
.LE
.EQ
delim off
.EN
