.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: renice.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:50:59 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\" 
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.TH renice 8
.SH NAME
\*Lrenice\*O \- Alters the priority of a running process
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/usr/sbin/renice\*O \*Vpriority\*O [\*L\-p\*O] \*Vpid\*O \&.\&.\&. 
[\*L\-g\*O \*Vpgrp\*O \&...] [\*L\-u\*O \*Vuser\*O \&...]\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP 
.iX "renice command"
.iX "altering process scheduling priority"
.iX "priority" "process, altering"
.iX "scheduling priority" "process, altering"
.iX "process" "scheduling priority, altering"
The \*Lrenice\*O command alters the
scheduling priority of one or more running processes.
The arguments are interpreted as process IDs, process group IDs, or
user names.  When you issue the \*Lrenice\*O command with the
\*L\-g\*O flag, all processes in the process group have their
scheduling priority altered.  When you run the \*Lrenice\*O
command with the \*L\-u\*O flag, all processes owned by the user
have their scheduling priority altered.  By default, the processes
affected are specified by their process IDs.
.PP 
Only \*Lroot\*O can alter the priority of other user's processes
and can set the priority to any value in the range of -20 to
20.  Users without \*Lroot\*O privileges are restricted to altering 
the priority of processes they own and can only increase their 
"nice value" within the range of 0 to 20.
The following priorities are particularly useful:
.VL
.LI "\*L20\*O"
Runs affected processes when no other processes are running on the system
.LI "\*L0\*O"
Runs at the base scheduling priority
.LI "\*Vnegative number\*O"
Runs affected processes very quickly.
.LE 
.PP 
The preceding values are mapped by the command to those actually used by the
kernel.
.PP 
Note that users who do not have \*Lroot\*O privileges cannot increase
the scheduling priorities of their own processes (even if they had
originally decreased those priorities).
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L-g\*O"
Interprets arguments following the flag as process group IDs
.LI "\*L-u\*O"
Interprets arguments following the flag as usernames
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Resets \*Lrenice\*O argument interpretation to default process IDs
.LE 
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To change the priority of process IDs 987 and 32, and all processes
owned by the \*Ldaemon\*O and \*Lroot\*O users, enter:
.iS
renice +1 987 -u daemon root -p 32
.iE
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/renice\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions: \*Lgetpriority\*O(2), \*Lsetpriority\*O(2)
.iX "renice command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
