.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: repquota.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/29 19:30:10 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\" 
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.TH repquota 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lrepquota\*O \- Summarizes filesystem quotas
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/repquota\*O [\*L-guv\*O] \*Vfilesystem\*O \&...
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/repquota\*O \*L-a\*O [\*L-guv\*O]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "repquota command"
.iX "summarizing file system quotas"
.iX "file system" "quotes, summarizing"
.iX "quotas" "file system, summarizing"
The \*Lrepquota\*O command prints a summary of the disk usage and quotas
for the specified \*Vfilesystem\*Os.  By default, both user and group quota
are displayed (if they exist).
.PP
For each user or group, the current
number of files and amount of space (in block sizes of 1024 byte blocks) is
printed, as well as any quotas created with \*Ledquota\*O.
.PP
\*Lrepquota\*O must be run by a user
with superuser authority.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Prints quota for all the filesystems listed in \*L/etc/fstab\*O.
.LI "\*L-g\*O"
Prints group quotas only.
.LI "\*L-u\*O"
Prints user quotas only.
.LI "\*L-v\*O"
Prints a header line before the information for each filesystem.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/repquota\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "[\*Vfilesystem_root\*O]\*L/quota.user\*O"
Contains user quotas for \*Vfilesystem\*O
.LI "[\*Vfilesystem_root\*O]\*L/quota.group\*O"
Contains user quotas for \*Vfilesystem\*O
.LI "\*L/etc/fstab\*O"
Contains filesystem names and locations
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Ledquota\*O(8), \*Lfsck\*O(8), \*Lquota\*O(1),
\*Lquotacheck\*O(8), \*Lquotaon\*O(8).
.PP
Functions:  \*Lquotactl\*O(2).
.PP
Files:  \*Lfstab\*O(4).
.iX "repquota command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
