.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rexecd.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 12:38:39 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)rexecd.8	6.4 (Berkeley) 6/24/90
.\" 
.TH rexecd 8
.SH NAME
\*Lrexecd\*O \- The remote execution server
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lrexecd\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "rexecd"
.iX "remote execution"
The \*Lrexecd\*O daemon is the server for the \*Lrexec\*O(3)
routine.  The server provides remote execution facilities
with authentication based on usernames and passwords.
.PP 
The \*Lrexecd\*O daemon listens for service requests at the port indicated in
the \*Lexec\*O service specification; see \*Lservices\*O(4).
When a service request is received, the following protocol is initiated:
.AL
.LI
The server reads characters from the socket up
to a null (`\e0') byte.  The resultant string is
interpreted as an ASCII number, base 10.
.LI
If the number received in step 1 is nonzero,
it is interpreted as the port number of a secondary
stream to be used for the
\*Lstderr\*O.
A second connection is then created to the specified
port on the client's machine.
.LI
A null-terminated username of at most 16 bytes
is retrieved on the initial socket.
.LI
A null-terminated, unencrypted password of at most
16 bytes is retrieved on the initial socket.
.LI
A null-terminated command to be passed to a
shell is retrieved on the initial socket.  The length of
the command is limited by the upper bound on the size of
the system's argument list.
.LI
The \*Lrexecd\*O server then validates the user as is done at login time
and, if the authentication was successful, changes
to the user's home directory, and establishes the user
and group protections for the user.
If any of these steps fail, the connection is
aborted with a diagnostic message returned.
.LI
A null byte is returned on the initial socket
and the command line is passed to the normal login
shell of the user.  The shell inherits the network connections established
by \*Lrexecd\*O.
.LE 
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Except for the last diagnostic message listed,
all diagnostic messages are returned on the initial socket,
after which any network connections are closed.
An error is indicated by a leading byte with a value of
1 (0 is returned in step 7 above upon successful completion
of all the steps prior to the command execution).
.VL
.LI "\*CUsername too long.\*O"
The name is longer than 16 bytes.
.LI "\*CPassword too long.\*O"
The password is longer than 16 bytes.
.LI "\*CCommand too long.\*O"
The command line passed exceeds the size of the argument
list (as configured into the system).
.LI "\*CLogin incorrect.\*O"
No password file entry for the username existed.
.LI "\*CPassword incorrect.\*O"
The wrong password was supplied.
.LI "\*CNo remote directory.\*O"
The \*Lchdir\*O command to the home directory failed.
.LI "\*CTry again.\*O"
A \*Lfork\*O by the server failed.
.LI "\*Cshellname: \&...\*O"
The user's login shell could not be started.
This message is returned on the connection associated with
\*Lstderr\*O and is not preceded by a flag byte.
.LE
.SH CAUTIONS
.PP 
Indicating\*CLogin incorrect\*O as opposed to \*CPassword incorrect\*O
is a security breach that allows people to probe a system for users with
null passwords.
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/rexecd\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
Functions: \*Lrexec\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
