.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ris.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/05 16:46:05 $
.\"
.TH ris 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lris\*O \- remote installation services utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /usr/sbin/ris
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ris program (RIS)"
The \*Lris\*O utility performs remote installation services to install
software from a disk area on the server onto a client machine through
the TCP/IP local network.  Both base system software and optional
products can be installed remotely.  The client can be any system that
uses the \*Lsetld\*O utility for installing software.  (See
RESTRICTIONS.)
.PP
The \*Lris\*O utility uses the directory \*L/usr/var/adm/ris\*O as a
base.  As part of installing the first product into
\*L/usr/var/adm/ris\*O, the utility creates a remote installation
services (RIS) disk area.  RIS areas have names of the form
\*Lris\*Vn.arch\*O, where \*Vn\*O is a sequentially-assigned number
beginning with 0 and \*Varch\*O is a name identifying the client's
machine architecture.  The first RIS area for Alpha clients would thus
be named \*Lris0.alpha\*O.  Additional areas for the same or other
client architectures can be set up for organizational or performance
reasons.
.PP
A RIS area contains one or more software products.  Each product
contains the software subsets that can be installed to clients on a
network.  Once products are installed into an area, clients registered
for that area can install the software over the network using the
\*Lsetld\*O utility.
.PP
The
\*Lris\*O
utility performs the following functions:
.PP
a \- Add client
.PP
d \- Delete software
.PP
i \- Install software
.PP
l \- List registered clients
.PP
m \- Modify client
.PP
s \- Show products in remote installation environments
.PP
r \- Remove client
.PP
The \*Lris\*O utility must be used interactively to set up a RIS area.
After a RIS area is set up on the server, the \*Lris\*O utility can be
used either interactively or from the command line to manage clients.
For command-line use, the desired function is passed to the utility as
a flag.  See EXAMPLES.
.PP
The \*L/usr/var/adm/ris\*O directory also holds a subdirectory,
\*L/usr/var/adm/ris/clients\*O.  This directory contains a database
file, \*Lrisdb\*O, that is used to manage multiple clients.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
DEC OSF/1
remote installation servers cannot install the base operating
system on clients that do not support the \*Lbootp\*O network
bootstrapping protocol.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example invokes the \*Lris\*O utility interactively:
.oS
# /usr/sbin/ris\fP
.oE
.PP
A menu appears from which you can select options to perform \*Lris\*O
functions.
.PP
The examples that follow manage a client named \*Lvizier\*O using the
command line.  Backslashes (\*L\e\*O) indicate line continuation and
are not part of the command syntax.
.PP
The command syntax to add a client follows:
.oS
/usr/sbin/ris \-a <clientname> \-h <Ethernet_address> \e
.br
\-p path,product[,product]
.oE
.PP
The following command adds client \*Lvizier\*O and allows that client
to install a product over the network:
.oS
# /usr/sbin/ris \-a vizier \-h 08\-00\-2B\-03\-05\-8B \e
.br
\-p ris0.alpha,product_1\fP
.oE
.PP
The command syntax to modify a client follows:
.oS
/usr/sbin/ris \-a <clientname> [\-h <Ethernet_address>] \e
.br
[\-p <path,product,product>]
.oE
.PP
The following command modifies client \*Lvizier\*O and allows that
client to install a product over the network:
.oS
# /usr/sbin/ris \-m vizier \-p ris0.alpha,product_2\fP
.oE
.PP
The command syntax to remove a client follows:
.oS
/usr/sbin/ris \-r <clientname>
.oE
.PP
The following command removes client \*Lvizier\*O:
.oS
# /usr/sbin/ris \-r vizier\fP
.oE
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 32
\*L/usr/var/adm/ris\*O
Base directory for remote installation areas
.TP 32
\*L/usr/var/adm/ris/clients\*O
Directory for database
.TP 32
\*L/usr/var/adm/ris/clients/risdb\*O
Remote installation information database
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:
setld(8)
.PP
\*ESharing Software on a Local Area Network\*O
.br
\*EInstallation Guide\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
