.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rlogind.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/09 17:47:49 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1989 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)rlogind.8	6.11 (Berkeley) 6/24/90
.\" 
.TH rlogind 8
.SH NAME
\*Lrlogind\*O \- The remote login server
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lrlogind\*O [\*L-aln\*O]
.sE 
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Requests the addresses for the hostname, verifying that the name and
address correspond.  Normal authentication is bypassed if the address
verification fails.
.LI "\*L-l\c\*O"
Prevents authentication based on the user's \*L$HOME/.rhosts\*O file,
unless the user is logging in as the superuser.
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Disables transport-level, keep-alive messages. The messages are enabled
by default.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "rlogind"
.iX "remote login server"
The \*Lrlogind\*O daemon is the server for the \*Lrlogin\*O(1)
program.  The server provides a remote login facility
with authentication based on privileged port numbers from trusted hosts.
.PP 
The \*Lrlogind\*O daemon listens for service requests at the port indicated in
the login service specification; see \*Lservices\*O(4).
When a service request is received, the following protocol is initiated:
.AL
.LI
The server checks the client's source port.
If the port is not in the range 512 to 1023, the server aborts the connection.
.LI
The server checks the client's source address and requests the corresponding 
hostname (see \*Lgethostbyaddr\*O(3), \*Lhosts\*O(4) and \*Lnamed\*O(8).
If the hostname cannot be determined, the dot-notation representation of the
host address is used.  If the hostname is in the same domain as the server
(according to the last two components of the domain name), or if the 
\*L\-a\*O flag is given, the addresses for the hostname are requested,
verifying that the name and address correspond.
Normal authentication is bypassed if the address verification fails.
.LE 
.PP 
Once the source port and address have been checked,
\*Lrlogind\*O proceeds with the authentication process described in
\*Lrshd\*O(8).  It then allocates a pseudoterminal (see
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\" changed pty(4) to pty(7)
\*Lpty\*O(7)), and manipulates file descriptors so that the slave
.\"End Digital correction.
half of the pseudoterminal becomes the \*Lstdin\*O, \*Lstdout\*O,
and \*Lstderr\*O for a login process.  The login process is an instance of the
\*Llogin\*O(1) program invoked with the \*L\-f\*O
option if authentication has succeeded.  If automatic authentication 
fails, the user is prompted to log in as if on a standard terminal line.  The
\*L\-l\*O option prevents any authentication based on the user's \*L.rhosts\*O
file, unless the user is logging in as the superuser.
.PP 
The parent of the login process manipulates the master side of
the pseudoterminal, operating as an intermediary
between the login process and the client instance of the
\*Lrlogin\*O program.  In normal operation, the packet protocol described
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\" changed pty(4) to pty(7)
in \*Lpty\*O(7) is invoked to provide \*L<Ctrl-s>\*O/\*L<Ctrl-q>\*O 
.\"End Digital correction.
type facilities and propagate interrupt signals to the remote programs.
The login process propagates the client terminal's baud rate and terminal type,
as found in the \*LTERM\*O environment variable.
The screen or window size of the terminal is requested from the client,
and window size changes from the client are propagated to the
pseudoterminal.
.PP 
Transport-level, keep-alive messages are enabled unless the \*L\-n\*O flag
is present.  The use of keep-alive messages allows sessions to be timed out
if the client crashes or becomes unreachable.
.PP
Note that the authentication procedure used here assumes the integrity
of each client machine and the connecting medium.  This is
insecure, but is useful in an \*Vopen\*O environment.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All initial diagnostic messages are indicated
by a leading byte with a value of 1 (one),
after which any network connections are closed.
If there are no errors before \*Llogin\*O
is invoked, a null byte is returned as an indication of success.
.VL
.LI "\*CTry again.\*O"
A \*Lfork\*O by the server failed.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/rlogind\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
Commands: \*Llogin\*O(1)
.PP 
Daemons: \*Lrshd\*O(8)
.PP 
Functions: \*Lruserok\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
