.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rmfset.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/21 19:40:14 $
.\"
.TH rmfset 8
.PP
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lrmfset\*O \- deletes a fileset from a file domain
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "rmfset command"
.\"
.sS
\*L/sbin/rmfset\*O
\*Vdomain\*O
\*Vsetname\*O
.\"
.sE
.\"
.sp 8p
.\"
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vdomain\*O"
Specifies the name of an existing file domain.
.\"
.LI "\*Vsetname\*O"
Specifies the name of the fileset to be deleted
from the specified file domain.
.LE
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "Fileset" "deleting"
.iX "Deleting a fileset"
.iX "Removing a fileset"
.\"
.iX "Unmounting a fileset"
.iX "Fileset" "unmounting"
The
\*Crmfset\*O
command deletes a fileset and all of its files from an
existing file domain. Unmount a fileset before removing it with the
\*Crmfset\*O command.
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
To remove a fileset, the fileset must be unmounted and without a clone fileset.
You must have root-user privilege to access this command.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.\"
The following example removes the \*Lcredit_fs\*O fileset from the
\*Laccounts_dmn\*O file domain. In this example, the \*Lcredit_fs\*O fileset is
mounted on the \*L/mnt3\*O directory:
.PP
.oS
# umount /mnt3
# rmfset accounts_dmn credit_fs
.oE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.\" COMMANDS:
.\" \*Ldefgh_refpg\*O(1), etc

.\" \*Lclonefset\*O(8),
.\" 
.\" 
.\" \*Lclonefset\*O(8), 
.\"\*Ldefrag\*O(8),
.\"
.\" \*Lnewfdmn\*O(8),
.\"
.\" \*Lmigrate\*O(8),
.\"
.\" \*Lmkfdmn\*O(8),
.\"
\*Lmkfset\*O(8),
.\"
\*Ladvfs\*O(4),
.\"
.\"\*Lrmfset\*O(8),
.\"\*Lshowbitmap\*O(8),
.\"
\*Lshowfdmn\*O(8),
.\"
\*Lshowfsets\*O(8),
.\"
.\" \*Lshowxtnts\*O(8)
.\"
\*Lmount\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
