.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rmt.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/11 13:15:07 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" rmt.man
.\" nm_07.08.90
.TH rmt 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lrmt\*O \- Allows remote access to magnetic tape devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lrmt\*O [\*Vdebug-output-file\*O]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "rmt"
.iX "remote" "access" "read and write"
.iX "tape" "remote read and write"
.iX "remote" "server" "rrestore"
.iX "remote" "server" "rdump"
.iX "server" "remote" "rdump"
.iX "server" "remote" "rrestore"
The \*Lrmt\*O command is started as a server process when requests
from an \*Lrdump\*O or \*Lrrestore\*O call enter the system to operate
a storage device through an interprocess communications connection.
After the remote programs have finished, \*Lrmt\*O exits and will be
started again at the next request.  The \*Lrmt\*O command is normally
invoked with an \*Lrexec\*O or \*Lrcmd\*O system call.
.PP
This process performs the commands described in the following table
and responds with a status indication to tell a user the result of the
commanded process. When the \*Lrmt\*O command is called with a
filename specified as the \*Vdebug-output-file\*O parameter, all
status responses are passed to the \*Vdebug-output-file\*O in ASCII
and in one of two possible formats.  Consequently, a system administrator
can debug both software and hardware problems associated with
previously issued backup commands to storage devices.
.iX "rrestore"
.iX "rdump"
.iX "rexec"
.iX "rcmd"
.iX "remote" "filename"
.iX "file" "remote"
.iX "error" "remote tape access"
.iX "tape" "remote access"
.iX "remote" "tape access debug"
.iX "debug" "remote tape access"
.PP
Responses to successful commands are in the format:
.oS
A\*Vnumber\*C\en
.oE
where \*LA\*O identifies a normal response, \*Vnumber\*O is an integer
that defines the number of the response as an ASCII integer, and
\*L\en\*O is a newline in the C-language idiom.
.PP
Responses to unsuccessful commands are in the format:
.oS
E\*Verror_number  error_message\*C\en
.oE
where \*LE\*O identifies a response to an error, \*Verror_number\*O is
one of the possible error numbers values described in \*Lintro\*O(2),
\*Verror_message\*O is the corresponding error-message string, which is output
in response to a call to \*Lperror\*O(3), and \*L\en\*O is a newline.
.PP
Debug information returned by \*Lrmt\*O is stored in the named
\*Vdebug-output-file\*O file. The \*Lrmt\*O command is called from the
\*Lrdump\*O or \*Lrrestore\*O process with no file argument only when
the \*Vdebug-output-file\*O parameter is specified.  To activate the
debug option of \*Lrmt\*O your system administrator should rename the
original \*Lrmt\*O to \*Lrmt.ORG\*O, for example, and create a new shell
executable \*Lrmt\*O that calls \*Lrmt.ORG \*Vdebug-output-file\*O.
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.RS 5
The \*Lrdump\*O command starts remote server \*L/usr/sbin/rmt\*O or
\*L/etc/rmt\*O on the client machine to access the storage medium.
Another vendor's \*Lrdump\*O command may fail because \*Lrmt\*O is
not located in \*L/etc\*O.  To avoid this
problem, it may be necessary to provide a symbolic link on the DEC OSF/1
machine pointing to \*L/usr/sbin/rmt\*O as shown in the following example:
.iS
ln -s /usr/sbin/rmt /etc/rmt
.iE
.sp 6p
.RE
.PP
All numerical arguments of the following commands are transferred as
ASCII strings:
.VL
.LI "\*LO \*Vdevice flag\*O"
Opens the \*Vdevice\*O, which must be a full pathname. The \*Vflag\*O
parameter is a flag value suitable for the \*Lopen\*O system call.
When the \*Vdevice\*O is successfully opened, the response is
\*LA0\en\*O.
.LI "\*LC \*Vdevice\*O"
Closes the current open \*Vdevice\*O.
When this command is successful, the response is \*LA0\en\*O.
.LI "\*LL \*Voffset whence\*O"
Performs a seek operation. The \*Voffset\*O and \*Vwhence\*O
parameters have the same significance as the \*Voffset\*O and
\*Vwhence\*O parameters of the \*Llseek\*O system call. When this
command successfully completes, the response is \*LA\*Vn\*L\en\*O,
where \*Vn\*O has the same value returned by a normally successful
\*Llseek\*O system call.
.LI "\*LW \*Vcount\*O"
Writes data to the \*Vdevice\*O (see the \*LO\*O command above). The
\*Lrmt\*O command reads \*Vcount\*O bytes from the connection. This
process is aborted when an \*LEOF\*O (End-of-File) is detected before
the number of characters specified by \*Vcount\*O is transferred. The
response to this command is \*LA\*Vn\*L\en\*O, where \*Vn\*O is the
number of characters written.
.LI "\*LR \*Vcount\*O"
Reads \*Vcount\*O bytes of data from the open device. When the value
of \*Vcount\*O exceeds the size of the data buffer (10
kilobytes), the number of characters read is truncated to the data
buffer size. The \*Lrmt\*O command then does the requested read
operation. The response to this command is \*LA\*Vn\*L\en\*O, where \*Vn\*O
is the number of characters read.
.LI "\*LI \*Voperation count\*O"
Performs an \*Lioctl\*O system call on the open \*Vdevice\*O.
The \*Voperation\*O parameter is a value passed to the \*Lmt_op\*O
member of a type \*Lmtop\*O structure for an \*LMTIOCTOP ioctl\*O
(magnetic tape operation) command. Valid values for the magnetic tape
operations are defined in the \*L/usr/include/sys/mtio.h\*O include file.
The \*Vcount\*O parameter is the value to pass to the \*Lmt_count\*O member
of the type \*Lmtop\*O structure and specifies the number of operations
performed on the tape drive. The response to this command is
\*LA\*Vn\*L\en\*O, where \*Vn\*O is the \*Lcount\*O.
.LI "\*LS\*O"
Returns the status of the open \*Vdevice\*O, which is obtained with a
\*LMTIOCGET ioctl\*O system call. A successful response to this
command is \*LA\*Vn\*L\en\*O, where \*Vn\*O is the size of the status
buffer, together with the contents of the status buffer in binary.
.LE
.SH "FILES"
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/rmt\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/usr/include/errno.h\*O"
Describes the possible error numbers.
.LI "\*L/usr/include/sys/mtio.h\*O"
A header file that defines magnetic tape operations.
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands:  \*Lrdump\*O(8), \*Lrrestore\*O(8).
.PP
Functions: \*Lrcmd\*O(3), \*Lrexec\*O(3), \*Lopen\*O(2), \*Lioctl\*O(2)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
