.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: route.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/09 14:27:41 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)route.8	6.8 (Berkeley)
.TH route 8
.SH NAME
\*Lroute\*O \- Manually manipulates the routing tables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lroute\*O [\*L-nqv\*O] \*Vcommand\*O [\*Vmodifiers\*O] [\*Vargs\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Prevents attempts to print host and network names
symbolically when reporting actions.
.LI "\*L-v\*O"
Causes additional details to be printed.
.LI "\*L-q\*O"
Suppresses all output.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "route"
.iX "routing" "tables"
The \*Lroute\*O command is a program used to manually manipulate the network
routing tables.  It normally is not needed, as a system routing table
management daemon, such as \*Lgated\*O or \*Lrouted\*O,
should tend to this task.
.PP
The \*Lroute\*O command accepts five commands:
.VL
.LI "\*Ladd\*O"
to add a route
.LI "\*Lflush\*O"
to remove all routes
.LI "\*Ldelete\*O"
to delete a specific route
.LI "\*Lchange\*O"
to change aspects of a route (such as its gateway)
.LI "\*Lmonitor\*O"
to report any changes to the routing information base,
routing lookup misses, or suspected network partionings.
.LE
.PP
The \*Lmonitor\*O command has the syntax:
.iS
route [-n] monitor
.iE
.PP
The \*Lflush\*O command has the syntax:
.iS
route [-n] flush [\*Vfamily\*O]
.iE
where the address family may be specified by any of the
\*L-xns\*O or \*L-inet\*O keywords.
.PP
The other commands have the following syntax:
.iS
route [-n] \*Vcommand\*O [\*L-net|-host\*O] \*Vdestination gateway\*O
.iE
where \*Vdestination\*O is the destination host or network,
and \*Vgateway\*O is the next hop and gateway to which packets should
be addressed.  Routes to a particular host are distinguished from those to
a network by interpreting the Internet address associated with
\*Vdestination\*O.  The optional keywords \*L-net\*O and \*L-host\*O
force the destination to be interpreted as a network or a host, respectively.
Otherwise, if the \*Vdestination\*O has a local address part of
\*LINADDR_ANY\*O, or if the \*Vdestination\*O
is the symbolic name of a network, then the route is
assumed to be to a network; otherwise, it is presumed to be a
route to a host.
.PP
For example, \*L128.32\*O is interpreted as \*L-host 128.0.0.32\*O,
\*L128.32.130\*O is interpreted as \*L-host 128.32.0.130\*O;
\*L-net 128.32\*O is interpreted as \*L128.32.0.0\*O,
and \*L-net 128.32.130\*O is interpreted as \*L128.32.130.0\*O.
.PP
If the route is via an interface rather than via a gateway, the
\*L-interface\*O modifier should be specified;
the gateway given is the address of this host on the common network,
indicating the interface to be used for transmission.
.PP
The optional modifier \*L-xns\*O
specifies that all subsequent addresses are in the XNS address families,
and the names must be numeric specifications rather than symbolic names.
.PP
The optional modifiers \*L-rtt\*O, \*L-rttvar\*O, \*L-sendpipe\*O,
\*L-recvpipe\*O, \*L-mtu\*O, \*L-hopcount\*O, \*L-expire\*O,
and \*L-ssthresh\*O provide initial values to metrics maintained in
the routing entry.  These may be individually locked by preceding each
such modifier to be locked by the \*L-lock\*O meta-modifier, or one can
specify that all ensuing metrics may be locked by the \*L-lockrest\*O
meta-modifier.
.PP
All symbolic names specified for a \*Vdestination\*O or
\*Vgateway\*O are looked up first as a hostname using
\*Lgethostbyname\*O(3).  If this lookup fails, \*Lgetnetbyname\*O(3)
is then used to interpret the name as that of a network.
.PP
The \*Lroute\*O command uses a routing socket and the new message types
RTM_ADD, RTM_DELETE, and RTM_CHANGE.  As such, only the superuser may modify
the routing tables.
.PP
If the \*Lflush\*O command is specified, \*Lroute\*O
will flush the routing tables of all gateway entries.
One can choose to flush only those routes whose destinations
are of a given address family by specifying an optional keyword
describing which address family.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.\"Digital correction. The IP address was found to be incorrect;
.\"128.32.0.130 was used instead.
.LI
To add gateway \*L128.32.0.130\*O as a default gateway, enter:
.iS
route   add   default   128.32.0.130
.iE
.LI
To add a route to host \*Lmilan\*O via gateway \*L128.32.0.130\*O, enter:
.iS
route   add   -host   milan  128.32.0.130  -hopcount  2
.iE
where \*L2\*O is the distance in hops to the host.
.LI
To delete an existing route \*L128.32.0.130\*O to host \*Lmilan\*O, enter:
.iS
route   delete   -host   milan   128.32.0.130
.iE
.\"End Digital correction.
.LE
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.VL
.LI "\*CAdd [host | network] %s: gateway %s flags %x\*O"
The specified route is being added to the tables.  The
values printed are from the routing table entry supplied
in the \*Lioctl\*O call.
If the gateway address used was not the primary address of the gateway
(the first one returned by \*Lgethostbyname\*O),
the gateway address is printed numerically as well as symbolically.
.LI "\*CDelete [ host | network ] %s: gateway %s flags %x\*O"
As above, but when deleting an entry.
.LI "\*C%s %s done\*O"
When the \*L\-f\*O flag is specified, each routing table entry deleted
is indicated with a \*Lmessage\*O of this form.
.LI "\*CNetwork is unreachable\*O"
An attempt to add a route failed because the gateway listed was not
on a directly connected network.  The next hop gateway must be given.
.LI "\*CNot in table\*O"
A delete operation was attempted for an entry that was not
present in the tables.
.LI "\*CRouting table overflow\*O"
An add operation was attempted, but the system was
low on resources and was unable to allocate memory
to create the new entry.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/route\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands:  \*Lrouted\*O(8), \*Lgated\*O(8)
.PP
Files:  \*Lnetintro\*O(7)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
