.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: routed.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/11/10 20:29:48 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Made coding modifications to accommodate tman.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.\" 
.TH routed 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lrouted\*O \- Manages network routing tables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/routed\*O [\*L-q\*O | \*L-s\*O] [\*L-dgt\*O] [\*Vlogfile\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lrouted\*O daemon manages the network routing tables.
.PP
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L-d\*O"
Enables additional debugging information, such as bad packets
received, to be logged.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Added the same sentence as in -t per QAR 7966.
The \*Lrouted\*O daemon remains under control of the host
that started it; therefore, an interrupt from the controlling host
stops the \*Lrouted\*O process.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.LI "\*L-g\*O"
Causes the routing daemon to run on a gateway host.
This flag is used on internetwork routers to offer a route to
the default destination.
.LI "\*L-q\c\*O"
Inhibits the \*Lrouted\*O daemon from supplying Routing
Information Protocol (RIP) data.
The \*L-q\*O flag conflicts with the \*L-s\*O flag.
Do not use the \*L-q\*O and \*L-s\*O flags together.
.LI "\*L-s\c\*O"
Causes \*Lrouted\*O to supply RIP information even if it is
not functioning as an Internet router.
The \*L-s\*O flag conflicts with the \*L-q\*O flag.
Do not use the \*L-s\*O and \*L-q\*O flags together.
.LI "\*L-t\*O"
Causes all packets sent or received to be written to standard
output.
The \*Lrouted\*O daemon remains under control of the host
that started it; therefore, an interrupt from the controlling host
stops the \*Lrouted\*O process.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "routed"
.iX "daemon" "routed"
.iX "routed daemon"
.iX "managing" "network routing tables"
.iX "networks" "managing routing tables"
.iX "tables" "network routing"
.iX "servers" "routed"
Use the \*Lrouted\*O daemon to manage the RIP only.
Use \*Lgated\*O to manage RIP plus other protocols.
.PP
When \*Lrouted\*O starts, it finds any interfaces to directly connected
hosts and networks that are configured into the system and marked as
\*Lup\*O.  If multiple interfaces are present, \*Lrouted\*O assumes
that the local host forwards packets between networks.
The \*Lrouted\*O daemon transmits an RIP request
packet on each interface (using a broadcast packet if the interface
supports it) and then enters a loop, listening for RIP routing
requests and response packets from other hosts.
In addition, if \*Lrouted\*O is to
supply RIP information to other hosts, it periodically
sends RIP update packets (containing copies of its routing tables) to
any directly connected hosts and networks.
.PP
When \*Lrouted\*O receives a RIP request packet and can supply RIP
routing information, (the \*L-s\*O flag is set),
it generates a reply (response packet) based on the information
maintained in the kernel routing tables.  The response packet contains a
list of known routes, each marked with a \*Vhop count metric\*O
(the number of host-to-host connections in the route).
The metric for each route is relative to the sending host.
A metric of 16 or greater is considered to be infinite, or beyond reach.
.SS Updating Routing Tables
If RIP processing is enabled,
\*Lrouted\*O uses information contained in the RIP response and update
packets from other hosts to update its routing tables.
However, \*Lrouted\*O uses the information in the RIP routing
packet to update the tables only if at least one of the
following conditions exists:
.ML
.LI
No routing table entry exists for the destination network or host,
and the metric associated with the route is finite (that is, the metric
is less than 16).
.LI
The source host of the packet is the router in the
existing routing table entry.
.LI
The routing table entry is old and the new information is about a
route that is at least as efficient as the existing route.
.LI
The new route is shorter than the one that is currently stored in
the routing tables.  (Note that \*Lrouted\*O determines
relative route length by comparing the new metric with the one stored in
the routing table.)
.LE
.PP
When \*Lrouted\*O updates its internal routing tables, it generates an RIP
update packet to all directly connected hosts and networks.
Before updating the kernel routing tables, \*Lrouted\*O pauses for a
brief period to allow any unstable conditions to stabilize.
.PP
Besides processing incoming RIP packets, \*Lrouted\*O also checks the
internal routing table entries periodically.  The metric for any entry
that has not been updated for 3 minutes is set to infinity and marked
for deletion.  The deletion is delayed for 60 seconds so that
information about the invalidated route can be distributed throughout
the network.  A host that acts as an RIP router supplies its routing
tables to all directly connected hosts and networks every 30 seconds.
.SS Using Gateways
In addition to managing routes to directly connected hosts and
networks, \*Lrouted\*O maintains information about \*Vdistant\*O
and \*Vexternal\*O gateways.  At startup, \*Lrouted\*O
reads the \*L/etc/gateways\*O file to learn about these gateways.
.PP
The \*L/etc/gateways\*O file contains information
about routes through distant and external
gateways to hosts and networks that can be advertised through RIP.
These routes are either static routes to specific
destinations, or default routes that apply when a static route to a
destination is unspecified.
.PP
Gateways that supply RIP routing
information are marked \*Lactive\*O in the \*L/etc/gateways\*O file.
The \*Lrouted\*O daemons distributes RIP routing information
to active gateways; if
no RIP routing information is received from the gateway for a period
of time, \*Lrouted\*O deletes the associated route from the routing tables.
.PP
Gateways that do not exchange RIP routing information are
marked \*Lpassive\*O in the \*L/etc/gateways\*O file.
\*LRouted\*O maintains information about
\*Vpassive\*O gateways indefinitely, and includes information about them
in any RIP routing information transmitted.
.PP
Gateways are identified as \*Vexternal\*O to inform \*Lrouted\*O that
another routing process installs the route.
.PP
Information about \*Vexternal\*O gateways is not maintained in the routing
tables.  Note that routes through external gateways must be to networks only.
.PP
If a \*Vlogfile\*O is specified, \*Lrouted\*O writes information about its
actions to the specified log file.  The log contains information about any
changes to the routing tables and a history of recent
route change messages sent and received that are related to changed routes.
.SS Signals
The following signals have the specified effect when
sent to the \*Lrouted\*O process using the \*Lkill\*O(1) command:
.VL
.LI "\*LSIGUSR1\*O"
Displays internal routing tables.
.LI "\*LSIGHUP\*O, \*LSIGTERM\*O, or \*LSIGQUIT\*O"
Broadcasts RIP packets with hop counts set to infinity.
Essentially, these signals disable the local host as a router.
On a second \*LSIGHUP\*O, \*LSIGTERM\*O, or \*LSIGQUIT\*O,
\*Lrouted\*O terminates.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/routed\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/etc/gateways\*O"
Routes through distant and external gateways
.LI "\*L/etc/networks\*O"
Contains the network name database
.LE
.SH CAUTIONS
.PP
.AL
.LI
The \*Lgated\*O and \*Lrouted\*O daemons should not both be run on the same
host, as this may produce unpredictable results.
.LI
Routes through external gateways must be to networks only.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lroute\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
