.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rpc.statd.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/27 19:32:08 $
.\"
.TH rpc.statd 8
.SH NAME
\*Lrpc.statd\*O, \*Lstatd\*O \- Network status monitor daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/rpc.statd\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "network status daemon"
.iX "rpc.statd" "network status daemon"
The \*Lrpc.statd\*O daemon monitors the status of the client and server sites
in response to a request made by the local
\*Lrpc.lockd\*O daemon.  When a site failure is detected,
the \*Lrpc.statd\*O daemon notifies the local \*Lrpc.lockd\*O
daemon, which then processes the recovery of the locked files or file
regions.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The crash of a site is only detected on its recovery.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/etc/sm\*O"
A directory created by the \*Lstatd\*O daemon.  Each file name in the
directory is the host name of a client or server that the
\*Lstatd\*O daemon will notify upon its recovery.
.LI "\*L/etc/sm.bak\*O"
A backup directory created by the \*Lstatd\*O daemon.
.LI "\*L/etc/state\*O"
A file created by the \*Lstatd\*O daemon to store its state number.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Daemons: \*Lrpc.lockd\*O(8)
.PP
Files: \*Lstatmon\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
