.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rpc.lockd.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/19 13:39:25 $
.\"
.TH rpc.lockd 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lrpc.lockd\*O, \*Llockd\*O \- Network lock daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/rpc.lockd\*O [ \*L-t \*Vtimeout\*O ] [ \*L-g \*Vgraceperiod\*O ]
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-t \*Vtimeout\*O"
Causes the \*Lrpc.lockd\*O
daemon to use the variable \*Vtimeout\*O (in seconds) as the interval
instead of the default value of 5 seconds to retransmit a lock
request to the remote server.
.LI "\*L-g \*Vgraceperiod\*O"
Causes the \*Lrpc.lockd\*O
daemon to use the variable \*Lgraceperiod\*O (in seconds) as the grace period duration
instead of the default value of 15 seconds.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "lock" "daemon"
.iX "network" "lock daemon"
The
\*Lrpc.lockd\*O
daemon processes lock requests that are either
sent locally by the kernel or remotely by another lock daemon.
The NFS locking service makes this advisory locking support
possible by using the
\*Lfcntl\*O
system call and the
\*Llockf\*O
subroutine.
The
\*Lrpc.lockd\*O
daemon forwards lock requests for remote data to the server site's
lock daemon.
The
\*Lrpc.lockd\*O
daemon then requests the status monitor daemon,
\*Lrpc.statd\*O,
for monitor service.
The reply to the lock request is not sent
to the kernel until
the status daemon and the server site's
lock daemon have replied.
.PP
If either the
status monitor or server site's lock daemon is unavailable,
the reply to a lock request for remote data
is delayed until all daemons become available.
.PP
When a server recovers, it waits for a grace period for all client site
lock daemons to submit reclaim requests.  Client site
lock daemons are notified by
\*Lrpc.statd\*O
of the server recovery and promptly resubmit previously
granted lock requests.  If a client site's
lock daemon fails to secure previously granted locks at the server site, it
sends the signal SIGLOST
to all the processes that were previously holding locks
and cannot reclaim them.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lfcntl\*O(2), \*Llockf\*O(3),  \*Lrpc.statd\*O(8), \*Lsignal\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
