.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rpcinfo.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/09 00:00:21 $
.\"
.TH rpcinfo 8
.SH NAME
rpcinfo \- report remote procedure call (RPC) information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/rpcinfo \-p\*O [\*Vhost\*O]
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/rpcinfo\*O [\*L\-n\*O \*Vportnum\*O] \*L\-u\* \*Vhost program-number\*O [\*Vversion-number\*O]
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/rpcinfo\*O [\*L\-n\*O \*Vportnum\*O] \*L\-t\*O \*Vhost program-number\*O [\*Vversion-number\*O]
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/rpcinfo \-b\*O \*Vprogram-number version-number\*O
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/rpcinfo \-d\* \*Vprogram-number version-number\*O
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L\-b\*O"
Makes an RPC broadcast to procedure 0 of the specified
program and version using UDP and report all hosts
that respond.
.LI "\*L\-d\*O"
Deletes registration for the RPC service of the specified
program and version. This option can be executed only by the superuser.
.LI "\*L\-n\*O \*Vportnum\*O"
Uses
\*Vportnum\*O
as the port number for the
.B \-t
and
.B \-u
options instead of the port number given by the portmapper.
.LI "\*L\-p\*O"
Probes the portmapper \*Lportmap(8), running on
\*Vhost,\*O
and print a list of all registered RPC programs.
If
\*Vhost\*O
is not specified, \*Lrpcinfo\*O defaults to the
value returned by either \*Lhostname\*O(1) or \*Lgethostname\*O(2).
.LI "\*L\-u\*O"
Makes an RPC call to procedure 0 of
\*Vprogram-number\*O
using the user datagram protocol (UDP), and report whether a response
was received.
.LI "\*L\-t\*O"
Makes an RPC call to procedure 0 of
\*Vprogram-number\*O
using the transmission control protocol (TCP), and report whether a
response was received.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "rpcinfo command"
.iX "RPC server" "reporting information"
The \*Lrpcinfo\*O command makes a remote procedure call (RPC) call
to an RPC server and displays its findings
based on the specified options.  The
\*Vprogram-number\*O
argument can be either a name or a number.  If a version is specified,
\*Lrpcinfo\*O attempts to call that version of
the specified program. Otherwise, \*Lrpcinfo\*O
attempts to find all the registered version numbers for the specified
program by calling version 0. If version 0 exists, \*Lrpcinfo\*O
attempts to obtain this information by calling an extremely high version
number. \*Lrpcinfo\*O then attempts to call each registered version.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To show all of the RPC services registered on the local machine, use:
.oS
# rpcinfo -p
.oE
.LI
To ping the \*Lmountd\*O service registered on the machine named klaxon, use:
.oS
# rpcinfo -u klaxon mountd
.oE
.LI
To show all machines on the local network that are running the \*Lypserv\*O
daemon, use:
.oS
# rpcinfo -b ypserv 'version' | uniq
.oE
.P
where 'version' is the current NIS version obtained from the results of
the
.B \-p
option.
.LI
To delete the registration for version 1 of the \*Lypbind\*O daemon, use:
.oS
# rpcinfo -d walld 1
.oE
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 15
\*L/etc/rpc\*O
Names for RPC program numbers
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lhostname\*O(1), \*Ltcp\*O(7), \*Ludp\*O(7), \*Lportmap\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
