.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rshd.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/09/25 15:02:20 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1989 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)rshd.8	6.10 (Berkeley) 6/24/90
.\" 
.TH rshd 8
.SH NAME
\*Lrshd\*O \- The remote shell server
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lrshd\*O [\*L-aln\*O]
.sE 
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
The addresses for the hostname are requested, verifying that the name
and address correspond.
.LI "\*L-l\c\*O"
Prevents the \*Lruserok\*O command from doing any validation based on
the user's \*L.rhosts\*O file, unless the user is the superuser.
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Disables transport-level, keep-alive messages.
.LE 
.SH "SECURITY NOTE"
.PP
This security-sensitive command uses the SIA (Security
Integration Architecture) routine
as an interface to the security mechanisms. See the
\*Lmatrix.conf\*O4
reference page for more information.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "rshd"
.iX "servers"
.iX "remote shell server"
The \*Lrshd\*O daemon is the server for the \*Lrcmd\*O(3)
routine and, consequently, for the \*Lrsh\*O(1) program.
The server provides remote execution facilities
with authentication based on privileged port numbers from trusted hosts.
.PP 
The \*Lrshd\*O daemon listens for service requests at the port indicated in
the \*Lcmd\*O service specification; see \*Lservices\*O(4).  
When a service request is received, the following protocol is initiated:
.AL
.LI
The server checks the client's source port.
If the port is not in the range 512 to 1023, the server
aborts the connection.
.LI
The server reads bytes from the socket up
to a null (`\e0') byte.  The resultant string is
interpreted as an ASCII number, base 10.
.LI
If the number received in step 2 is nonzero,
it is interpreted as the port number of a secondary
stream to be used for the \*Lstderr\*O option.
A second connection is then created to the specified
port on the client's machine.  The source port of this
second connection is also in the range 512 to 1023.
.LI
The server checks the client's source address
and requests the corresponding hostname (see
\*Lgethostbyaddr\*O(3), \*Lhosts\*O(4), and \*Lnamed\*O(8)).
If the hostname cannot be determined,
the dot-notation representation of the host address is used.
If the hostname is in the same domain as the server (according to
the last two components of the domain name),
or if the \*L\-a\*O flag is given,
the addresses for the hostname are requested,
verifying that the name and address correspond.
If address verification fails, the connection is aborted
with the message \*CHost address mismatch\*O.
.LI
A null-terminated username of at most 16 bytes
is retrieved on the initial socket.  This username
is interpreted as the user identity on the client 's
machine.
.LI
A null-terminated username of at most 16 bytes
is retrieved on the initial socket.  This username
is interpreted as a user identity to use on the
server's machine.
.LI
A null-terminated command to be passed to a
shell is retrieved on the initial socket.  The length of
the command is limited by the upper bound on the size of
the system's argument list.
.LI
The \*Lrshd\*O daemon then validates the user using \*Lruserok\*O(3),
which uses the file \*L/etc/hosts.equiv\*O and the \*L.rhosts\*O
file found in the user's home directory.  The \*L\-l\*O
flag prevents \*Lruserok\*O(3)
from doing any validation based on the user's \*L.rhosts\*O file,
unless the user is the superuser.
.LI
A null byte is returned on the initial socket
and the command line is passed to the normal login
shell of the user.  The shell inherits the network connections established
by \*Lrshd\*O.
.LE 
.PP 
Transport-level, keep-alive messages are enabled unless the
\*L\-n\*O flag is present.
The use of keep-alive messages allows sessions to be timed out
if the client crashes or becomes unreachable.
.SH CAUTIONS
The authentication procedure used here assumes the integrity of each
client machine and the connecting medium.  This is
insecure, but is useful in an \*Vopen\*O environment.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Except for the last diagnostic message listed,
\*Lall diagnostic messages are returned\*O on the initial socket,
after which any network connections are closed.
An error is indicated by a leading byte with a value of
1 (0 is returned in step 9 above upon successful completion
of all the steps prior to the execution of the login shell).
.VL
.LI "\*CLocuser too long.\*O"
The name of the user on the client's machine is
longer than 16 characters.
.LI "\*CRemuser too long.\*O"
The name of the user on the remote machine is
longer than 16 characters.
.LI "\*CCommand too long.\*O"
The command line passed exceeds the size of the argument
list (as configured into the system).
.LI "\*CLogin incorrect.\*O"
No password file entry for the username existed.
.LI "\*CNo remote directory.\*O"
The \*Lchdir\*O command to the home directory failed.
.LI "\*CPermission denied.\*O"
The authentication procedure previously described failed.
.LI "\*CCan't make pipe.\*O"
The pipe needed for the \*Lstderr\*O option, but it was not created.
.LI "\*CCan't fork; try again.\*O"
A \*Lfork\*O by the server failed.
.LI "\*V<shellname>\*C: ...\*O"
The user's login shell could not be started.  This message is returned
on the connection associated with the
\*Lstderr\*Ooption, and is not preceded by a flag byte.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/rshd\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lrsh\*O(1)
.PP
Functions:  \*Lrcmd\*O(3), \*Lruserok\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
