.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: runacct.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/20 22:14:50 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" runact1.man
.\" nm_31.07.90
.\" hah_26.07.90
.TH runacct 8
.SH NAME
\*Lrunacct \*O \- Runs daily accounting
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lrunacct [\*Vmmdd\*O] [\*VState\*O \&...]
.sE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \*Lrunacct\*O command is the daily accounting shell procedure.
This shell procedure is normally invoked from the \*Lcron\*O daemon
to process connection, fee, disk
usage, queueing (printer), and process accounting database files for the
current day. The \*Lrunacct\*O shell procedure produces a
\*L/var/adm/acct/nite/dayacct\*O binary daily accounting file and also
produces summary files, which the \*Lprdaily\*O shell procedure uses to
generate ASCII daily file \*L/var/adm/acct/sum/rprt\*Vmmdd\*O or to
generate files used for billing for the use of various system resources.
The \*L/var/adm/acct/nite/dayacct\*O binary daily accounting file is used by
the \*Lacctmerg\*O command.
.PP 
The \*Lacctmerg \*Ocommand adds records from the \*Ldayacct\*O file to the
\*L/var/adm/acct/sumtacct\*O file. The \*L/var/adm/acct/sumtacct\*O file is a
cumulative summary of system resources used during the accounting period.
The \*Lsumtacct\*O file is used by the \*Lmonacct\*O command to produce the
monthly accounting summary file, \*L/var/adm/acct/fiscal\*O.
.PP 
The \*Lrunacct\*O command has two parameters that you may enter from
the keyboard whenever you must restart the \*Lrunacct\*O shell procedure.
The date parameter, \*Vmmdd\*O, is used to specify the day and month for
which you want to rerun the accounting shell procedure. The \*VState\*O
parameter is used to restart the \*Lrunacct\*O shell procedure from any of
its 13 states. Recovery from a run failure and the \*Lrunacct\*O shell
procedure restart is described under the \*LRestarting Runacct\*O
heading on the next page.
.PP 
The \*Lrunacct\*O command protects active accounting and summary files
whenever a run-time error occurs. During execution, the state-to-state
progress of the \*Lrunacct\*O shell process is recorded by writing
descriptive messages to the \*L/var/adm/acct/nite/active\*O file.
Whenever the \*Lrunacct\*O shell process detects a run-time error, a
\*Lmail\*O message is sent to the superuser (root) and to the user
named \*Ladm\*O when environment variable MAILCOM is set to \*Lmail
root adm\*O. After writing the mail message the \*Lrunacct\*O shell procedure
aborts.
.PP 
The \*Lrunacct\*O shell procedure also creates the temporary file
named \*Llock\*O in subdirectory \*L/var/adm/acct/nite\*O. This file
is used to prevent simultaneous calls to the \*Lrunacct\*O shell
procedure. The \*Lrunacct\*O shell procedure also uses the \*Llastdate\*O
file, in the same subdirectory, to prevent more than one invocation of
the \*Lrunacct\*O command per day.
.SS "The \*Lrunacct\*O States"
.PP 
The \*Lrunacct\*O shell procedure is processed in 13 separate
restartable states. When the \*Lrunacct\*O process completes each
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Removed extra 'the' per QAR 6887.
state, the name of the next state to undergo execution is written
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
to the \%\*L/var/adm/acct/nite/state\*O file.  The \*Lrunacct\*O
procedure processes the various states named in the leftmost column below,
in the order given.
.VL
.LI "\*LSETUP\*O"
Moves the active accounting files to working files and restarts the active
files.
.LI "\*LWTMPFIX\*O"
Verifies the integrity of the \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O file and corrects
date changes when necessary.
.LI "\*LCONNECT1\*O"
Calls the \*Lacctcon1\*O command to write connect session records.
.LI "\*LCONNECT2\*O"
Converts connect session records from the \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O file to
total accounting records in total format defined by \*Ltacct\*O
structure members in the private \*Ltacct.h\*O header file.
.LI "\*LPROCESS\*O"
Converts process accounting records from the \*L/var/adm/pacct*\*O file(s)
into total accounting records (see \*LCONNECT2\*O above).
.LI "\*LMERGE\*O"
Merges the connect and process total accounting records.
.LI "\*LFEES\*O"
Converts the output obtained with the \*Lchargefee\*O command
into total accounting records (see \*LCONNECT2\*O above) and merges
them with other total accounting records.
.LI "\*LDISK\*O"
Merges disk accounting records with connect, process, and fee total
accounting records.
.LI "\*LQUEUEACCT\*O"
Sorts queue (printer) accounting records, converts them into total
accounting records (see \*LCONNECT2\*O above), and merges them with other
total accounting records.
.LI "\*LMERGETACCT\*O"
Merges the daily total accounting records in the
\*L/var/adm/acct/nite/dayacct\*O file with summary total
accounting records in the \*L/var/adm/acct/sum/tacct\*O file.
.LI "\*LCMS\*O"
Produces command summaries in the file \*L/var/adm/acct/sum/cms\*O.
.LI "\*LUSEREXIT\*O"
When the shell procedure \*L/var/adm/siteacct\*O exists, and the
\*Lrunacct\*O shell procedure enters this state, the
\*L/var/adm/siteacct\*O is called to perform site-dependent account
record processing.
.LI "\*LCLEANUP\*O"
Deletes all temporary files and exits.
.LE 
.SS "Restarting \*Lrunacct\*O"
To restart the \*Lrunacct\*O shell process after it fails, do the following:
.AL
.LI
Check the \*L/var/adm/acct/nite/active\*O file for diagnostic messages.
.LI
Repair records in any damaged database files, such as \*L/var/adm/pacct\*O
or \*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O.
.LI
Remove the \*L/var/adm/acct/nite/lock\*O and \*L/var/adm/acct/nite/lastdate\*O
files.
.LI
Before restarting the\*L runacct\*O shell procedure, you must specify
the \*Vmmdd\*O parameter of the \*Lrunacct\*O command. This parameter
specifies the month and day for which the \*Lrunacct\*O command is to
rerun the accounting shell process. The \*Lrunacct\*O shell procedure
determines the entry point for processing by reading the
\*L/var/adm/acct/nite/statefile\*O file. To override this default
action, specify a \*Vstate\*O listed above on the \*Lrunacct\*O command line.
.PP
It is not a good idea to restart the \*Lrunacct\*O command in the
\*LSETUP\*O state. Instead, perform set-up actions manually and restart
accounting in the \*LWTMPFIX\*O state by entering the following
command:
.iS
runacct mmdd WTMPFIX
.iE
.LE 
.PP 
Should the \*Lrunacct\*O process fail during its \*LPROCESS\*O state,
remove the last \*L/var/adm/acct/nite/ptacct*.\*Vmmdd\*O file before
restarting the \*Lrunacct\*O shell process because the file does not complete
until the next state is entered.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.AL
.LI
To start daily accounting procedures for the use of various system resources,
add the following command line to a \*Lcrontabs\*O file so that the
\*Lrunacct\*O shell procedure is automatically called by the \*Lcron\*O
daemon.
.iS
.ps -1
0 4 * * 1-6 /usr/sbin/acct/runacct 2 > /var/adm/acct/nite/accterr
.ps +1
.iE
This example shows the instructions that the \*Lcron\*O daemon reads
and then executes.  The \*Lrunacct\*O shell procedure runs at 4:00 a.m. (\*L0
4\*O) every Monday through Saturday (\*L1-6\*O) and redirects errors from the
standard error output (\*L2 >\*O) to the \*L/var/adm/acct/nite/accterr\*O
file.  This command typifies accounting instructions normally passed
to the \*Lcron\*O daemon from the \*Lrunacct\*O shell procedure. (See
the \*ESystem Administration\*O.)
.LI
To start daily accounting procedures for system
resources from the command line (start the \*Lrunacct\*O command),
enter:
.iS
nohup  /usr/sbin/acct/runacct  2>  /var/adm/acct/nite/accterr&
.iE
Although it is preferable to have the \*Lcron\*O daemon start the
\*Lrunacct\*O procedure automatically (see the first example), you may enter
the command from the keyboard. The \*Lrunacct\*O command will run in
the background, ignoring all \*LINTERRUPT\*O and \*LQUIT\*O
signals (\*Lnohup\*O), and write all standard error output (\*L2>\*O) to the
\*L/var/adm/acct/nite/accterr\*O file.
.LI 
To restart the system accounting procedures for
a specific date, enter a command similar to the following:
.iS
.ps -1
nohup  /usr/sbin/acct/runacct  0601  2>>  /var/adm/acct/nite/accterr&
.ps +1
.iE
In this example, the \*Lrunacct\*O command is executed on the first
day of June (\*L0601\*O). The \*Lrunacct\*O process reads the
\*L/var/adm/acct/nite/statefile\*O file to find the state from which
to start. The \*Lrunacct\*O process runs in the background and
ignores all \*LINTERRUPT\*O and \*LQUIT\*O signals (\*Lnohup\*O).
The standard error output (\*L2\*O) is appended (\*L>>\*O) to the end
of the file named \*L/var/adm/acct/nite/accterr\*O.
.LE 
.SH "FILES"
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/acct/runnact\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O"
The active login/logout database file.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/pacct\*O"
The active process accounting database file.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/acct/nite/daytacct\*O"
The active disk-usage accounting database file.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/qacct\*O"
The active queue (printer) accounting file.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/fee\*O"
The file containing records of fees charged to users.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/acct/sum/*\*O"
The command and total accounting summary files.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/acct/nite/ptacct*.\*O\*Vmmdd\*O"
The concatenated version of the \*Lpacct\*O files.
.br
.ne 9P
.LI "\*L/var/adm/acct/nite/active\*O"
The \*Lrunacct\*O error message file.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/acct/nite/lock\*O"
Prevents more than one invocation of the \*Lrunacct\*O shell procedure.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/acct/nite/lastdate\*O"
Contains the last date the \*Lrunacct\*O shell procedure was run.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/acct/nite/statefile\*O"
Contains the next state to process.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/siteacct\*O"
A shell procedure containing site-dependent accounting commands.
.LI "\*L/usr/include/sys/acct.h\*O"
Accounting header file that defines formats for writing accounting files.
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lacct\*O(8), \*Lacctcms\*O(8), \*Lacctcom\*O(8), \*Lacctcon\*O(8), \*Lacctmerg\*O(8), \*Lacctprc\*O(8), \*Lfwtmp\*O(8)
.PP 
Daemons: \*Lcron\*O
.PP 
Functions:  \*Lacct\*O(2)
.PP
\*ESystem Administration\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
