.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rwhod.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/29 19:45:56 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
.\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail 
.\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)rwhod.8	6.4 (Berkeley)
.\" 
.TH rwhod 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lrwhod\*O \- The system status server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Added Environment note information.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.sS
\*Lrwhod\*O [\*L-b\*O|\*L-l\*O]
.sE
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Added Environment note information
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-b\*O"
Sets the broadcast only mode.
Sends outgoing \*Lrwho\*O packets, but ignores incoming ones.
.LI "\*L-l\*O"
Sets the listen only mode.
Collects incoming \*Lrwho\*O packets from the
network, but does not broadcast \*Lrwho\*O data.
.LE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "rwhod"
.iX "servers"
The \*Lrwhod\*O daemon is the server that maintains the database used by the
\*Lrwho\*O(1) and \*Lruptime\*O(1) programs.  Its operation is predicated
on the ability to \*Lbroadcast\*O messages on a network.
.PP
The \*Lrwhod\*O
server operates as both a producer and consumer of status information.
As a producer of information, it periodically
queries the state of the system and constructs
status messages, which are broadcast on a network.
As a consumer of information, it listens for other
\*Lrwhod\*O servers' status messages, validating them, then recording
them in a collection of files located in the \*L/var/rwho\*O
directory.
.PP
The server transmits and receives messages at the port indicated
in the \*Lrwho\*O service specification; see \*Lservices\*O(4).
The messages sent and received, are of the form:
.oS
struct  outmp {
        char    out_line[8];            /* tty name */
        char    out_name[8];            /* user id */
        long    out_time;               /* time on */
};
.sp
struct  whod {
        char    wd_vers;
        char    wd_type;
        char    wd_fill[2];
        int     wd_sendtime;
        int     wd_recvtime;
        char    wd_hostname[32];
        int     wd_loadav[3];
        int     wd_boottime;
        struct  whoent {
                struct  outmp we_utmp;
                int     we_idle;
        } wd_we[1024 / sizeof (struct whoent)];
};
.oE
.PP
All fields are converted to network byte order prior to
transmission.  The load averages are as calculated by the
\*Lw\*O(1) program, and represent load averages over the 5-, 10-, and 15-minute
intervals prior to a server's transmission; they are multiplied by 100
for representation in an integer.  The hostname
included is that returned by the \*Lgethostname\*O(2)
system call, with any trailing domain name omitted.
The array at the end of the message contains information about
the users logged in to the sending machine.  This information
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\" changed utmp(5) to utmp(4)
includes the contents of the \*Lutmp\*O(4)
.\"End Digital correction.
entry for each nonidle terminal line and a value indicating the
time in seconds since a character was last received on the terminal line.
.PP
Messages received by the \*Lrwho\*O
server are discarded unless they originated at an \*Lrwho\*O
server's port.  In addition, if the host's name, as specified
in the message, contains any unprintable ASCII characters, the
message is discarded.  Valid messages received by
\*Lrwhod\*O are placed in files named \*Lwhod\*O.\*Vhostname\*O
in the \*L/var/rwho\*O directory.
These files contain only the most recent message, in the
format previously described.
.PP
Status messages are generated approximately once every
3 minutes.  \*Lrwhod\*O performs an \*Lnlist\*O(3)
on \*L/vmunix\*O every 30 minutes to guard against
the possibility that this file is not the system
image currently operating.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/rwhod\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands: \*Lrwho\*O(1), \*Lruptime\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
