.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: savecore.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/29 19:50:58 $
.\" 
...\"
...\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
...\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail
...\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
...\"
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
.TH savecore 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsavecore\*O - Saves a core dump of the operating system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.\" Begin Digital-specific information -- CHANGE
\*Lsavecore\*O [\*L-cefv\*O] \*Vdirectory\*O
.\" End Digital-specific information
.\" \*Lsavecore\*O [\*L-cefv\*O] \*Vdirectory\*O [\*Vsystem\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lsavecore\*O command saves the most recent core dump of the
system and writes a reboot message in the shutdown log.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.VL
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Does not copy the dump, but simply marks it invalid.
.LI "\*L-e\*O"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
Saves only the kernel syslog and binary event log buffers from the dump.
If this flag is specified, core or namelist images are not saved.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L-f\*O"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information -- CHANGE
.\" Copies the dump even if it appears to be invalid.  If both \*L-c\*O
.\" and \*L-f\*O are specified, \*L-f\*O is ignored.
Copies the dump even if it is old or there is insufficient filesystem
space to save it.
.\" End of Degital-specific information
.LI "\*L-v\*O"
Prints more verbose information.
.LE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "savecore command"
.iX "saving a core dump"
.iX "core dump" "saving"
.iX "dump" "core, saving"
The \*Lsavecore\*O command
is usually invoked during system startup (before the dump partition
is accessed).
.PP
The \*Lsavecore\*O command checks to determine whether a dump has been
made recently (within the last three days) and that there is enough
space to save it (see the following information about \*Lminfree\*O).
These conditions are overridden by the \*L-f\*O flag.
.PP
Both the dump and the kernel are saved to files in \*Vdirectory\*O
under the names \*Lvmcore\&.\*Vn\*O and \*Lvmunix\&.\*Vn\*O,
respectively.  The variable \*Vn\*O is the number specified by
the file \*Vdirectory/bounds\*O and incremented by \*Lsavecore\*O.
If this value does not exist, it is created and initialized with the
value 0.
.PP
The file \*Ldirectory/minfree\*O specifies the minimum number of
kilobytes (default is 0) left on the filesystem containing
\*Vdirectory\*O after the dump is taken.
.PP
The \*Lsavecore\*O command also logs a reboot message using the
facility \*LLOG_CRIT\*O (see \*Lsyslog\*O(3)).  If the system crashed
as a result of a panic, \*Lsavecore\*O also logs the panic string.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information -- DELETION
.\" THE FOLLOWING NO LONGER TRUE FOR STERLING:
.\" If the core dump was from a system other than \*L/vmunix\*O, the
.\" name of that system must be supplied as the \*Vsystem\*O argument.
.PP
.\" DELETE FOLLOWING STATEMENT PER DEVO INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE
.\" STERLING RELEASE:
.\" The \*Vsystem\*O argument is not used by \*Lsavecore\*O, but is
.\" accepted for backwards compatibility.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
The \*Lsavecore\*O command attempts to save the kernel syslog and
binary event log buffers from the dump.  The \*Lmsgbuf.err\*O entry in
\*L/etc/syslog.conf\*O file and the \*Ldumpfile\*O entry in the
\*L/etc/binlog.conf\*O file
specify the buffer file names and locations.
The default file specifications are as follows:
.PP
.iS
msgbuf.err              /var/adm/crash/msgbuf.savecore

dumpfile                /var/adm/crash/binlogdumpfile
.iE
If the \*Lmsgbuf.err\*O or \*Ldumpfile\*O entry is not specified in the
\*L/etc/syslog.conf\*O or \*L/etc/binlog.conf\*O file, respectively,
the buffer is not saved.  You cannot specify that a buffer be
saved by forwarding it to any system.
.PP
The syslog messages or binary event log records that were not processed
due to a system crash are recovered
on the subsequent reboot.  The \*Lsavecore\*O command runs during
the system reboot, checks for the presence of a system
core dump, and saves the syslog and binary event log buffers.
.PP
When the \*Lsyslogd\*O and \*Lbinlogd\*O daemons are initialized,
they check for the saved buffer files; if found, the daemons
process the files and then delete them.
.PP
The default location for saving crash dumps is
\*L/var/adm/crash\*O.  This can be overridden as follows:
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/rcmgr set SAVECORE_DIR\*O \*Vdirectory\*O
.PP
The default behavior of \*Lsavecore\*O is to return to
single-user mode if it is unable to save a core dump because of
insufficient filesystem space.  This feature can be disabled as follows:
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/rcmgr set SAVECORE_FLAGS M\*O
.PP
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.\" Begin Digital-specific information -- CHANGE
.\" .LI "\*L/usr/sbin/savecore\*O"
.LI "\*L/usr/savecore\*O"
.\" End Digital-specific information
Specifies the command path.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information -- DELETION
.\" .LI "\*L/vmunix\*O"
.\" Specifies the current system.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.nL
.ne 4
.LI "\*Ldirectory/bounds\*O"
Specifies the number of next dump files.
.LI "\*Ldirectory/minfree\*O"
Specifies the minimum number of kilobytes to be left after a dump.
.\" ***DELETE FOLLOWING LIST ITEM PER DEVO INSTRUCTIONS FOR
.\"    STERLING RELEASE:
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" .LI "\*L/sbin/init.d/savecore\*O"
.\" Specifies the default location of crash
.\" dump files. By default, crash dump files are placed in
.\" \*L/var/adm/crash\*O. You can modify
.\" \*L/sbin/init.d/savecore\*O to direct \*Lsavecore\*O to use another
.\" location.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.iX "savecore command"
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:  \*Lsyslog\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
