.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: screenstat.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/20 01:20:56 $
.\"
.TH screenstat 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lscreenstat\*O \- Show gateway screening statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/screenstat\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "screenstat command"
.iX "gateway screening" "showing statistics"
The \*Lscreenstat\*O command displays statistics about kernel gateway
screening.  The display is sent to the standard output.
.PP
The format of the \*Lscreenstat\*O report is as follows:
.oS
total packets screened: 16754
total accepted: 15149
total rejected: 12
packets dropped:
        because buffer was full:        0
        because user was out of sync:   0
        because too old:        1592
total dropped:  1592
.oE
.PP
The \*Ltotal packets screened\*O count shows how many packets have been
received for forwarding.  The \*L accepted\*O and \*Lrejected\*O
counts show how many packets were forwarded or dropped based on instructions
from a user-level process.  The \*Ltotal dropped\*O count shows how many
packets were dropped for other reasons: lack of space in the kernel buffer,
errors by a user process, or packets that were queued for too long.
If the counts do not add up, some packets are currently queued in the kernel.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lscreen\*O(2)
.PP
Commands:
\*Lscreend\*O(8), \*Lscreenmode\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
