.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.TH screend 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lscreend\*O - Internet (IP) gateway screening daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/screend\*O [\*L\-d\*O] [\*L\-c\*O] [\*L\-l\*O] [\*L\-f \*Vconfigfile\*O]
 [\*L\-L \*Vlogfile\*O] [\*L\-s\*O] [\*L\-r\*O]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "screend server daemon"
.iX "Internet gateway screening daemon"
The \*Lscreend\*O daemon is used in conjunction with the gateway screen
facility to decide which IP packets should be forwarded when the
system is acting as an IP gateway.  Only the super-user may run
this program.
.PP
Before using \*Lscreend\*O you must add the following line to your system
configuration file:
.oS
pseudo-device      gwscreen
.oE
.PP
After editing the system configuration file you must rebuild
the kernel, and reboot the system.  For information on
rebuilding the kernel see the
\*ESystem Administration\*O
and the \*Ldoconfig\*O(8) reference page.
.PP
When \*Lscreend\*O is started, it reads the configuration file specified
(\*Vconfigfile\*O) and then processes packets according to the
instructions in that file.
.PP
The kernel screening facility must be enabled using \*Lscreenmode\*O(8)
before \*Lscreend\*O has any effect. (When screening is disabled, packets are
forwarded by the kernel according to its usual procedures.)
.PP
It is possible to run more than one copy of \*Lscreend\*O at a time, although
it is not recommended. You might do this, however, when the configuration file
is changed. Because the configuration file is read only at program startup, you
must restart \*Lscreend\*O when the file is changed.  To avoid any service
interruption, you should start a new instance of \*Lscreend\*O
before killing the old one.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L\-d\*O"
Prints large amounts of debugging information.  This is not
meant for normal use.
.LI "\*L\-c\*O"
Checks the syntax of the configuration file but does not actually
process any packets.
.LI "\*L\-l\*O"
Turns on logging for all packets (normally, packets are logged only
if requested in the configuration file).
.LI "\*L\-f \*Vconfigfile\*O"
Specifies the configuration file.  If not specified, the default,
\*L/etc/screend.conf\*O, is used.
.LI "\*L\-L \*Vlogfile\*O"
Specifies that logging records should be appended to the given file.
There is no default logging file. This may be specified simultaneously with
\*L\-s\*O, in which case each logging record is stored by both means.
.LI "\*L\-s\*O"
Specifies that logging records should be logged using \*Lsyslogd\*O(8).
.LI "\*L\-r\*O"
Specifies that logging records should include the rule number
of the configuration file rule responsible for the action logged.
This is useful for debugging configuration file problems.
See the section in this reference page on Rule Numbers.
.LE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
IP gateways are allowed to fragment IP datagrams if they are too large to be
forwarded in one piece. Only the first fragment of a datagram carries enough
information to make certain kinds of accept/reject decisions.
The \*Lscreend\*O daemon can only handle fragments if it sees the first
fragment of a datagram before it sees any subsequent fragments.
Also, only a limited rate of fragmented packet arrival can be accommodated by
the program (fragmentation is, in general, a bad idea). Finally, if more than
one instance of \*Lscreend\*O is running, most likely this will result in
significant loss of fragments.
.PP
The current implementation does not forward packets that contain IP header
options.  This is because several of these options can be used to subvert
checks based on the IP header destination address.
.PP
If a host \*Vname\*O given in an object specification has more than one IP
address associated with it, \*Lscreend\*O does not understand that all these
addresses should be checked. Only the first (primary) address of the host is
used.  This may lead to erroneous operation in some cases (possibly including
a security hole), so a warning is printed if the configuration file
contains such names.  (Note that you probably will not see this warning
if \*Lscreend\*O is started using the \*Linit\*O program.)
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
This following is an example of the syntax; it is not intended to
be used in an actual installation:
.oS
# Example configuration file
default reject;
for 36.0.0.0 netmask is 255.255.0.0;
from subnet 36.8.0.0 to net milnet reject notify;
from host nic.ddn.mil to host any accept;
from host any to net arpanet tcp port telnet accept;
from host any to host any icmp type redirect reject log;
from host any to subnet 36.10.0.0 tcp port-not reserved reject;
.oE
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
.PP
This is an informal guide to the grammar of the \*Lscreend\*O
configuration file.  It is intended for readers who are familiar with the basic
concepts of the IP protocol family, including the distinction between the terms
``network'' and ``subnet.''
.PP
Lexical structure:
.RS
.VL
.LI "Comments"
Can either be C-style comments, delimited by /* and */
or csh-style comments begun with a number sign (\&#) and
terminated by the end of a line.  Comments do not nest.
.LI "Case"
Significant in reserved words (all are lower-case).
This is actually a benefit, because if a host name happens
to conflict with a reserved word, you can use the
host name in upper-case.
.LI "Host names"
Must begin with a letter but may contain
digits, minus signs (\-), dots ( . ), and underscores (\&_ ).
The same is true of network, subnet, and netmask names.  Hosts can also be
identified by their IP address, in dotted quad notation (for example,
``128.45.40.15'').
.LI "Numbers"
May be in decimal or in hex (0x0 notation).
Octal notation is not allowed.  Decimal notation is the preferred method.
.LI "Protocol names"
Specified as they are found in \*L/etc/protocols\*O.
These can also be given as numbers.
.LI "Port names"
For TCP or UDP, specified as they are in \*L/etc/services\*O.
These can also be given as numbers (host byte order).
.LI "ICMP type codes"
Must be chosen from the following list, or given as
numbers:
.br
.\"	###################################################
.\" Documentation writer: PLEASE do not change this back to a "tbl"
.\" table, or it won't work with the online "man" command!
.\"	###################################################
.\".TS
.ta +\w'addressmaskrequest  'u +\w'addressmaskreply  'u
echo	echoreply	sourcequench
redirect	unreachable	timeexceeded
parameterproblem	timestamp	timestampreply
informationrequest	informationreply
addressmaskrequest	addressmaskreply
.\".TE
.LI "White space"
All white space is the same (including newlines).
.LE
.RE
.PP
General syntax rules:
.RS
.PP
The configuration file consists of specifications terminated by
semicolons.
.PP
There are three kinds of specifications:
.VL 7m
.LI "default-action specification"
There should only be one of these (the last
one is the one that counts); it specifies what action to take
if no action specification matches a packet.
.LI "subnet mask specifications"
Specifies the subnet mask used for a given network.
.LI "action specifications"
Specifies a class of packets and
the action to take when such a packet is received.
.LE
.PP
Specifications can appear in any order, but the evaluation
order of action specifications is the order in which
they appear in the file.
.RE
.PP
In BNF, this is:
.\"Added an e to the end of the line to get backslash to appear
.\"and the line to continue on the next line.  And some jerk took it
.\"off, so I've added it back (rfb)
.oS
\*V<configuration-file>\*O ::= \e
{ \*V<specification>\*O | \*V<configuration-file>\*O \*V<specification>\*O }
\*V<specification>\*O ::= \e
{ \*V<default-action>\*O | \*V<subnet-spec>\*O | \*V<action-spec>\*O }
.oE
.PP
The syntax for a default-action specification is:
.oS
\*V<default-action>\*O ::= \*Ldefault\*O {\*Laccept\*O | \*Lreject\*O} [\*Lnotify\*O] [\*Llog\*O];
.oE
.PP
Note that \*Ldefault accept notify;\*O is not legal.
If not specified, the default-action is \*Lreject\*O.
.PP
The syntax for subnet mask specifications is:
.oS
\*V<subnet-spec>\*O ::= \
\*Lfor\*O \*V<network>\*O \*Lnetmask is\*O \*V<maskval>\*O;
.oE
.PP
The \*V<network>\*O is either a network name or a dotted-quad address,
such as ``36.0.0.0''.  The number ``36'' is not a reasonable value.
\*V<Maskval>\*O is either a name (treated as a hostname) or a dotted-quad
address, such as ``255.255.255.0'' (bits are \*Von\*O for the network
and subnet fields.)
.PP
The syntax for action specifications is:
.oS
\*V<action-spec>\*O ::= \e
\*Lfrom\*O \*V<object>\*O \*Lto\*O \*V<object>\*O {\*Laccept\*O | \*Lreject\*O} [\*Lnotify\*O] [\*Llog\*O];
.oE
.PP
Such a specification says that packets flowing this way between this pair of
objects (defined below) should either be accepted or rejected.  If
\*Lnotify\*O is specified, when a packet is rejected an ICMP error message is
returned to the source.  If \*Llog\*O is specified, this packet and its
disposition are logged.
.PP
Conceptually, for each packet the action specifications are
searched in the order they appear in the configuration file, until
one matches.  The specified action is then performed.  If no specification
matches, the default action is performed.
.PP
To simplify the configuration file, the following syntax
may be used to indicate that the same action should be performed
on packets flowing in either direction between the specified pair
of objects:
.oS
\*V<action-spec>\*O ::= \e
\*Lbetween\*O \*V<object>\*O \*Land\*O \*V<object>\*O {\*Laccept\*O | \*Lreject\*O} [\*Lnotify\*O] [\*Llog\*O] ;
.oE
.PP
Note that this has the same effect as specifying the two unidirectional rules,
with the forward direction listed first.
.PP
An object is a specification of the source or destination of a packet.
The syntax for object specifications is somewhat complex, since certain fields
are optional:
.oS
\*V<object>\*O ::= \
{ \*V<address-spec>\*O | \*V<port-spec>\*O | \e
\*V<address-spec>\*O \*V<port-spec>\*O }
.oE
.PP
If the \*V<address-spec>\*O is not given, any host will match.
If the \*V<port-spec>\*O is not given, any protocol and port will match.
.oS
\*V<address-spec>\*O ::= { \*V<net-spec>\*O | \*V<subnet-spec>\*O | \*V<host-spec>\*O | \*Lany\*O }
\*V<net-spec>\*O ::= { \*Lnet\*O \*V<name-or-addr>\*O | \*Lnet\-not\*O \*V<name-or-addr>\*O }
\*V<subnet-spec>\*O ::= \e
{ \*Lsubnet\*O \*V<name-or-addr>\*O | \*Lsubnet\-not\*O \*V<name-or-addr>\*O }
\*V<host-spec>\*O ::= \
{ \*Lhost\*O \*V<name-or-addr>\*O | \*Lhost\-not\*O \*V<name-or-addr>\*O }
.oE
.PP
The \*L\-not\*O convention means that the object specification matches
if the specified field does \*Vnot\*O have the specified value.  In the
following example, packets not from nic.ddn.mil are dropped.
.oS
from host\-not nic.ddn.mil to host any reject;
.oE
.PP
The ``subnet'' and ``subnet\-not'' forms match against the
entire address under the subnet mask (for example, if the
netmask for net 36 is ``255.255.0.0'', then ``subnet
36.8.0.0'' matches a packet address of 36.8.0.1).
.\"Begin Digital modification.
.\"This example seems to change font and was too wide
.\"for our format.
.\".oS
.\"\*V<name-or-addr>\*O ::= \
.\"{ \*V<name>\*O | \*V<dotted-quad>\*O | \*Lany\*O }
.\"
.\"\*V<port-spec>\*O ::= { \*Lproto\*O \*V<proto-name-or-number>\*O 
.\".rS
.\"| \*Licmp type\*O \*V<type-name-or-number>\*O \
.\"| \*Licmp type\-not\*O \*V<type-name-or-number>\*O
.\"| \*Ltcp port\*O \*V<port-name-or-number>\*O \
.\"| \*Ltcp port\-not\*O \*V<port-name-or-number>\*O
.\"| \*Ludp port\*O \*V<port-name-or-number>\*O \
.\"| \*Ludp port\-not\*O \*V<port-name-or-number>\*O }
.\".rE
.\"
.\"\*V<proto-name-or-number>\*O ::= { \*V<name>\*O | \*V<number>\*O }
.\"\*V<type-name-or-number>\*O ::= \
.\"{ \*V<name>\*O | \*V<number>\*O | \*Lany\*O |  \*Linfotype\*O }
.\"\*V<port-name-or-number>\*O ::= \
.\"{ \*V<name>\*O | \*V<number>\*O | \*Lany\*O | \*Lreserved\*O  | \*Lxserver\*O }
.\".oE
.oS
\*V<name-or-addr>\*O ::= \
{ \*V<name>\*O | \*V<dotted-quad>\*O | \*Lany\*O }
\*V<port-spec>\*O ::= { \*Lproto\*O \*V<proto-name-or-number>\*O \e
.\".rS
    | \*Licmp type\*O \*V<type-name-or-number>\*O \e
    | \*Licmp type\-not\*O \*V<type-name-or-number>\*O \e
    | \*Ltcp port\*O \*V<port-name-or-number>\*O \e
    | \*Ltcp port\-not\*O \*V<port-name-or-number>\*O \e
    | \*Ludp port\*O \*V<port-name-or-number>\*O \e
    | \*Ludp port\-not\*O \*V<port-name-or-number>\*O }
.\".rE
\*V<proto-name-or-number>\*O ::= { \*V<name>\*O | \*V<number>\*O }
\*V<type-name-or-number>\*O ::= { \*V<name>\*O | \*V<number>\*O | \*Lany\*O |  \*Linfotype\*O }
\*V<port-name-or-number>\*O ::= \e
{ \*V<name>\*O | \*V<number>\*O | \*Lany\*O | \*Lreserved\*O  | \*Lxserver\*O }
.oE
.PP
``Reserved'' ports are those reserved by 4.2BSD Unix for privileged processes.
``Xserver'' ports are those used by X11 window system servers.
``Infotype'' ICMP packets are those that are
purely informational: echo, timestamp, information, and addressmask
requests, and the corresponding replies.
.SH RULE NUMBERS
.PP
If the \*L\-r\*O option is given, log records contain a notation
of the rule number responsible for the action being logged.
A rule is a ``from ... to ...'' specification in the configuration file; rules
are numbered in order starting with zero. Note that ``between ... and ...''
specifications expand to two ``from ... to ... '' rules, each numbered
individually. The default action, whether explicitly stated or not, is
not numbered; it is referred to distinctively in the log.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
During argument processing and configuration file parsing,
various diagnostics may be issued.  During normal operation,
only serious internal inconsistencies result in diagnostics.
(See the Restrictions section about warning messages in some
borderline cases.)
Except in debug mode (\*L\-d\*O), most diagnostics are logged using
\*Lsyslogd\*O(8).
.PP
Once an hour, a statistics report is made using \*Lsyslogd\*O(8)
that shows the number of packets processed since the program was
started, the hit rate of an internal cache buffer, and the number
of packets dropped because they arrived too rapidly.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/screend.conf\*O"
Default configuration file
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lscreen\*O(2)
.PP
Commands:
\*Lscreenmode\*O(8), \*Lscreenstat\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
