.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: screenmode.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/20 01:10:05 $
.\"
.TH screenmode 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lscreenmode\*O \- Enable or disable gateway screening
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/screenmode [on|off]\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "screenmode command"
.iX "gateway screening"
The \*Lscreenmode\*O command enables or disables gateway screening
if the argument is \*Lon\*O or \*Loff\*O, respectively.  See the
\*Lscreen\*O(2) reference page for more information on gateway screening.
.PP
When no argument is supplied, \*Lscreenmode\*O indicates the state of gateway
screening as on or off.
.PP
In order to avoid packets being forwarded before the \*Lscreend\*O
program has been started, \*Lscreenmode\*O should be run before configuring any
interfaces, other than the first interface on the system (which might be
needed during the bootstrap sequence).
.PP
Only the superuser can change the state.
.SH NOTES
.PP
If gateway screening is disabled while \*Lscreend\*O is running, the daemon
might exit.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If an unauthorized user tries to change the state, an error
message is displayed.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lscreen\*O(2)
.PP
Commands:
\*Lscreend\*O(8), \*Lscreenstat\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
