.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: scu.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/20 01:24:06 $
.\"
.TH scu 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lscu\*O \- SCSI CAM Utility Program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/sbin/scu\*O
[ \*L\-f \*Vdevice-name-path\*O ] [ \*Vcommand\*O [ \*Vargument\*O ... ] ]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "SCSI utility program"
.iX "scu utility"
The SCSI utility program, \*Lscu\*O, interfaces with the CAM I/O
subsystem and the
peripherals attached to the SCSI buses.  This utility implements the
SCSI commands necessary for normal maintenance and diagnostics
of SCSI peripherals and the CAM I/O subsystem.
.SS "General Arguments"
There are some general \*Varguments\*O that you can use with some of the
\*Lscu\*O commands:
.PP
\*Vnexus-information\*O
.PP
The \*Vnexus-information\*O argument allows you to specify values to
override the bus, target, and logical unit number (LUN) values that
are taken from the specified SCSI device.  The \*Vnexus-information\*O
argument can have the following syntaxes:
.RS 4
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lbus \*Vn\*O"
The previous syntax specifies the SCSI device bus number (path ID).
The \*Vn\*O variable can have a range of values from 0 (zero) to 3.
.LI "\*Ltarget \*Vn\*O"
The previous syntax specifies the target number (target ID).
The \*Vn\*O variable can have a range of values from 0 (zero) to 7.
.LI "\*Llun \*Vn\*O"
The previous syntax specifies the LUN.
The \*Vn\*O variable can have a range of values from 0 (zero) to 7.
.LE
.RE
.br
.ne 9P
.PP
\*Vtest-parameter\*O
.PP
The \*Vtest-parameter\*O argument specifies the physical
limits of the media on which the command can operate.  For example,
these limits can be the starting and ending logical block numbers on a
disk.  You can specify variables that control the media being tested
and variables that control elements of the test operation.
.PP
The following variables for the \*Vtest-parameter\*O
argument control the media that is being tested:
.RS 4
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Llbn \*Vn\*O"
.LI "\*Llength \*Vn\*O"
.LI "\*Lstarting \*Vn\*O"
.LI "\*Lending \*Vn\*O"
.LI "\*Lsize \*Vn\*O"
Specifies the block size per I/O request.  The default is 512.
.LI "\*Llimit \*Vn\*O"
.LI "\*Lrecords \*Vn\*O"
.LE
.RE
.PP
The following variables for the \*Vtest-parameter\*O
argument control elements of the test operation:
.RS 4
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lalign \*Valign-offset\*O"
Specifies the data buffer alignment offset.  The default is 0 (zero).
.LI "\*Lcompare\*O { \*Lon\*O | \*Loff\*O}"
Specifies if compare data during read operations is enabled.  The
default is enabled.
.LI "\*Lerrors \*Verror-limit\*O"
Specifies the error limit.  The default is 10.
.LI "\*Lpasses \*Vpass-limit\*O"
Specifies the number of passes to perform.  The default is 1.
.LI "\*Lpattern \*Vdata-pattern\*O"
Specifies the data pattern to use on the first pass.  The default is
0x39c39c39.
.LI "\*Lrecovery\*O {\*Lon\*O | \*Loff\*O}"
.LE
.RE
.PP
The following expressions are accepted for the \*Vtest-parameter\*O
argument variables that accept numeric values:
.PP
.RS 4
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB .
_
.sp 4p
Character@Meaning
.sp 4p
_
.sp 4p
.TE
.TS
l.
Special Characters:
.TE
.TS
tab(@);
lfCWw(0.5i) lw(2.0i).
b@blocks (512 bytes)
k@kilobytes (1024 bytes)
g@gigabytes (1073741824 bytes)
m@megabytes (1048576 bytes)
p@page size (usually 4096 bytes)
w@word size (2, 4, or 8 bytes)
.sp 4p
.TE
.TS
l.
Arithmetic Characters:
.TE
.TS
tab(@);
lfCWw(0.5i) lw(2.0i).
+@addition
-@subtraction
* or x@multiplication
/@division
%@remainder
.sp 4p
.TE
.TS
l.
Bitwise Characters:
.TE
.TS
tab(@);
lfCWw(0.5i) lw(2.0i).
~@complement of \*Lvalue\*O
>>@shift bits right
<<@shift bits left
&@bitwise "and" operation
|@bitwise "or" operation
^@bitwise exclusive "or"
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.RE
.PP
The following conditions apply to the characters used in expressions:
.ML
.LI
If \*Vvalue\*O is omitted, the value defaults to one.
.LI
Both upper and lower case characters are accepted.
.LI
Spaces and tabs are ignored between operands.
.LI
Expressions are evaluated from right to left without precedence.
.LI
Parentheses grouping is not supported.
.LE
.SS "General Commands"
The following \*Lscu\*O commands are used for general purposes:
.VL 2m
.LI "\*Levaluate \*Vexpression\*O"
The \*Levaluate\*O command evaluates the specified expression and
displays values in decimal, hexadecimal, blocks, kilobytes, megabytes,
and gigabytes.  The output depends on whether the \*Lset verbose\*O
flag is set.
.LI "\*Lexit\*O"
The \*Lexit\*O command is used to exit from the \*Lscu\*O program.  You
can also type Ctrl/D.  The \*Lscu quit\*O command is the equivalent of
the \*Lexit\*O command.
.LI "\*Lhelp\*O [\*Vcommand\*O]"
The \*Lhelp\*O command displays information on all \*Lscu\*O commands.
If you do not specify a \*Vcommand\*O, a list of possible topics is
displayed.
.LI "\*Lscan\*O {\*Ledt\*O [\*Vnexus-information\*O] [{\*Lfull\*O \e"
.ti -2m
| \*Lsummary\*O}] | \*Lmedia\*O [\*Vtest-parameters\*O]}
.br
The \*Lscan edt\*O command allows you to scan the SCSI bus and update
the CAM Equipment Device Table (EDT) to reflect the devices found.  If
the \*Vnexus-information\*O argument is not specified, the selected
device is scanned.  You can specify \*Lfull\*O to display
the inquiry data associated with each nexus, or \*Lsummary\*O (the default)
to display a single line of output for each nexus found.
.sp
The \*Lscan media\*O command allows you to scan the device media.  This
involves writing a data pattern to the media and then reading and
verifying the data.  The \*Vtest-parameters\*O argument specifies the
media area to be scanned.
.LI "\*Lset \*Vparameters\*O"
The \*Lset\*O command sets parameters for a device or sets environment
parameters for the \*Lscu\*O program.  The formats of the \*Lset\*O
parameters are as follows:
.RS 4
.VL 2m
.LI "\*Lset audio\*O {\*Laddress format\*O {\*Llba\*O | \*Lmsf\*O} \e"
.ti -2m
| \*Lvolume\*O [{\*Lch0\*O | \*Lch1\*O}] \*Llevel \*Vn\*O}
.br
The \*Laddress format\*O parameter specifies the default address format
associated with CD-ROM audio commands.
.sp
The \*Lvolume\*O parameter sets the audio volume control levels.
You can change the right or the left channel individually or
simultaneously.
.LI "\*Lset cam\*O {\*Ldebug\*O \*Vdebug-flags\*O | \*Lflags\*O \*Vccb-flags\*O}"
The \*Lcam debug\*O parameter allows you to set the CAM debug flags that
are used by the user-level SCSI/CAM special I/O interface.   You can
specify the following \*Vdebug-flags\*O variables:
.sp
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB
lfCWw(1.1i) lw(0.9i) lw(1.4i) .
_
.sp 4p
Debug Flag@Hex Value@Description
.sp 4p
_
.sp 6p
CAMD_INOUT@0x00000001@Routine entry and exit
CAMD_FLOW@0X00000002@Code flow through the modules
CAMD_ERRORS@0x00000010@Error handling
CAMD_CMD_EXP@0x00000020@T{
Expansion of commands and responses
T}
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.sp
The \*Lcam flags\*O parameter allows you to specify CAM flags to be set in
CCBs that are sent to the CAM subsystem.  You can specify the following
\*Vccb-flags\*O variables:
.sp
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB
lfCWw(1.1i) lw(0.9i) lw(1.4i) .
_
.sp 4p
CAM CCB Flag@Hex Value@Description
.sp 4p
_
.sp 6p
CAM_DIS_DISCONNECT@0x00008000@Disable disconnect
CAM_INITIATE_SYNC@0x00004000@T{
Attempt synchronous data transfer
T}
CAM_DIS_SYNC@0x00002000@T{
Disable synchronous data transfer
T}
CAM_SIM_QHEAD@0x00001000@T{
Place the CCB at the head of the SIM queue
T}
CAM_SIM_QFREEZE@0x00000800@T{
Return the SIM queue to the frozen state
T}
CAM_SIM_QFRZDIS@0x00000400@T{
Disable the SIM queue (freeze on errors)
T}
CAM_ENG_SYNC@0x00000200@T{
Flush residual bytes before completion
T}
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.LI "\*Lset debug\*O {\*Lon\*O | \*Loff\*O}"
The \*Ldebug\*O parameter enables or disables the \*Lscu\*O program debug
flag.
.LI "\*Lset default\*O {\*Lsavable\*O {\*Lon\*O | \*Loff\*O} | \*Vtest-parameter\*O}"
The \*Ldefault\*O parameter allows you to change some program defaults.
The \*Lsavable\*O argument allows you to specify if the mode page
parameters are saved.  By default, if the mode page is savable, then
the mode parameters that are set by the "set" or "change" page will be saved.
You can only
specify the \*Lalign, compare, errors, passes, pattern\*O, and
\*Lsize\*O \*Vtest-parameter\*O arguments.
.LI "\*Lset device\*O \*Vdevice-type\*O [\*Vnexus-information\*O]"
The \*Ldevice\*O parameter issues a CAM Set Device Type CCB to change
the device type in the EDT.  You can also use this parameter to set up
the device type of to overwrite the existing device type.
Use the \*Vnexus-information\*O argument to specify the device.
You can specify the following \*Vdevice-type\*O values:
.sp
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB
lfCWw(1.1i) lw(1.3i) lw(0.8i).
_
.sp 4p
Device Type@CAM definition@Value
.sp 4p
_
.sp 6p
direct-access@ALL_DTYPE_DIRECT@0
sequential-access@ALL_DTYPE_SEQUENTIAL@1
printer@ALL_DTYPE_PRINTER@2
processor@ALL_DTYPE_PROCESSOR@3
worm@ALL_DTYPE_WORM@4
rodirect@ALL_DTYPE_RODIRECT@5
scanner@ALL_DTYPE_SCANNER@6
optical@ALL_DTYPE_OPTICAL@7
changer@ALL_DTYPE_CHANGER@8
communication@ALL_DTYPE_COMM@9
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.LI "\*Lset dump\*O {\*Lon\*O | \*Loff\*O}"
Enables or disables the dump buffer flag.  If enabled and if the CAM
debug flag (CAMD_CMD_EXP) is set during a data-in operation, the entire
data buffer, up to the value of the \*Ldump-limit\*O parameter, is
dumped instead of the number of bytes indicated by the CCB fields.
The default is disabled.
.LI "\*Lset dump-limit \*V\*O"
Limits the number of bytes dumped during debugging.  The default is 512
bytes.
.LI "\*Lset log \*Vlog-file-path\*O"
Enables logging and writes standard output and error text to the specified
file.  You can disbale logging and close a log file by specifying a
null file name string.
.LI "\*Lset paging\*O {\*Lon\*O | \*Loff\*O}"
Controls paging if output is sent to a terminal device.
.LI "\*Lset recovery\*O {\*Lon\*O | \*Loff\*O}"
Enables (the default) or disables the error-control parameters for the
specified device.
.LE
.RE
.LI "\*Lshow \*Vparameter\*O"
Displays parameters for a device or program.  You can specify
\*Vparameter\*O as follows:
.RS 4
.VL 2m
.LI "\*Lshow audio \*Vargument\*O [\*Laddress format\*O {\*Llba\*O | \*Lmsf\*O}]"
Displays information about a CD-ROM device.  The \*Laddress format\*O
parameter specifies the default address format associated with CD-ROM
audio commands.  The \*Vargument\*O can be
the following:
.RS 4
.VL
.LI "\*Lchannel\*O"
Show the audio channel.
.LI "\*Lcatalog\*O"
Displays the media catalog number, if any.
.LI "\*Lisrc\*O"
Displays the International Standard Recording Code (ISRC) information, if any.
.LI "\*Lheader lba \*Vn\*O"
Displays the logical block address associated with the current
position.
.LI "\*Lposition\*O"
Displays the current play position information.
.LI "\*Lstatus lba \*Vn\*O"
Displays the current playback status information.
.LI "\*Ltoc\*O [{\*Lentry \*Vn\*O | \*Lheader\*O}] [{\*Lfull\*O | \*Lsummary\*O}]"
Displays the table of contents (TOC) for the current audio disc.
You can display the TOC header, a single TOC entry, or the
entire table of contents in either a full or summary report format.
The default is to display the entire TOC in summary format.
.LE
.RE
.LI "\*Lshow capacity\*O"
Displays disk capacity in blocks.
.LI "\*Lshow defects\*O [[\*Vdefect-list\*O [\*Vdefect-format\*O]]"
Displays the disk defect list or lists.  The \*Vdefect-list\*O can be
\*Lall, primary\*O, or \*Lgrown\*O.  The \*Vdefect-format\*O can be
\*Lblock, bfi\*O, or \*Lsector\*O.
.LI "\*Lshow device\*O [\*Vnexus-information\*O]"
Displays information returned by the CAM Get Device Type CCB.
If you do not specify \*Vnexus-information\*O,  the selected device is
used.
.LI "\*Lshow edt\*O [\*Vnexus-information\*O] [{\*Lfull\*O | \*Lsummary\*O}]"
Displays the CAM EDT entries.  If you do not specify
\*Vnexus-information\*O, all EDT entries are displayed.
You can specify \*Lfull\*O to display
the inquiry data associated with each nexus, or \*Lsummary\*O (the default)
to display a single line of output for each nexus found.
.LI "\*Lshow nexus\*O"
Displays the current nexus information and device type for the selected
device.
.LI "\*Lshow pages\*O [\*Vmode-page\*O [\*Lpcf \*Vpage-control-field\*O]]"
Displays the mode pages for the selected device.  The
\*Vpage-control-field\*O variable specifies the following page-control
fields: \*Lcurrent\*O, \*Lchangeable\*O, \*Ldefault\*O, or \*Lsaved\*O.
The \*Vmode-page\*O
variable describes the mode page on which to operate and can be the following:
.sp
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB
lfCWw(1.0i) lw(0.9i) lw(1.1i).
_
.sp 4p
Mode Page@Page Code@Description
.sp 4p
_
.sp 6p
error-recovery@0x01@Error recovery page
disconnect@0x02@Disconnect/reconnect page
direct-access@0x03@Direct access format page
geometry@0x04@Disk geometry page
flexible@0x05@Flexible disk page
cache-control@0x08@Cache control page
cdrom@0x0D@CD-ROM device page
audio-control@0x0E@Audio control page
device-configuration@0x10@Device configuration page
medium-partition-1@0x11@Medium partition page 1
dec-specific@0x25@DEC specific page
readahead-control@0x38@Read-ahead control page
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.LI "\*Lshow path-inquiry\*O [\*Vnexus-information\*O]"
Displays the CAM Path Inquiry information.  If you do not specify
\*Vnexus-information\*O, the selected device is used.
.LE
.RE
.LI "\*Lsource \*Vinput-file\*O"
Allows you to use the \*Vinput-file\*O as source input.
.LI "\*Lswitch\*O [\*Vdevice-name\*O]"
Accesses a different device or, if a \*Vdevice-name\*O is not
specified, to a previous device.
.LE
.SS "Device and Bus Subsystem Commands"
You can use the following \*Lscu\*O commands to manage SCSI devices and
the CAM I/O subsystem:
.VL 2m
.LI "\*Lallow\*O"
Allows you to remove the media from the selected device.
.LI "\*Leject\*O"
Used with a CD-ROM device to stop play and eject the caddy.
.LI "\*Lmt\*O \*Vparameter\*O"
You can specify the following \*Lmt\*O parameters:
.RS 4
.VL
.LI "\*Lbsf\*O [\*Vcount\*O]"
Used to backward space \*Vcount\*O file marks.  The default is 1.
.LI "\*Lbsr\*O [\*Vcount\*O]"
Use to backward space \*Vcount\*O file records.  The default is 1.
.LI "\*Lerase\*O"
Used to erase the tape.
.LI "\*Lfsf [\*Vcount\*O]"
Used to forward space \*Vcount\*O file marks.
.LI "\*Lfsr [\*Vcount\*O]"
Used to forward space \*Vcount\*O file records.
.LI "\*Lload\*O"
Used to load the tape.
.LI "\*Loffline\*O"
Used to take a tape off line (unload operation).
.LI "\*Lonline\*O"
Used to bring a tape online (load operation).
.LI "\*Lrewind\*O"
Used to rewind the tape.
.LI "\*Lretension\*O"
Used to retension the tape, which moves the tape one complete pass
between EOT and BOT.
.LI "\*Lseod\*O"
Used to space to the end of data (end of recorded media).
.LI "\*Lunload\*O"
Used to unload the tape.
.LI "\*Lweof\*O [\*Vcount\*O]"
Used to write tape file marks.  The default \*Vcount\*O is 1.
.LE
.RE
.LI "\*Lpause\*O"
Used to pause the playing of a CD-ROM audio disc.
.LI "\*Lplay\*O [\*Vparameters\*O] [\*Lstarting\*O [\*Vn\*O]] [\*Lending\*O [\*Vn\*O]]"
Used to play audio tracks on a CD-ROM audio disc.
If parameters are not specified, then all audio tracks are played.  It
the starting track number is omitted, the default is first audio track in
the disc.  If the ending track number is omitted, the default is the
last track on the audio disc.  You can specify the following \*Vparameters\*O:
.RS 4
.VL
.LI "\*Ltrack \*Vn\*O"
Plays the specified audio track number.Plays the
specified audio track number.
.LI "\*Laudio lba \*Vn \*Llength \*Vn\*O"
Plays audio using the logical block addressing (LBA) format.  Audio
play starts at the logical block address specified and continues through
the length (in blocks) specified.
.LI "\*Lmsf starting\*O \*Lmu \*Vn\*O \*L su \*Vn\*O \*Lfu \*Vn\*O \*Lending \*Lmu \*Vn\*O \*Lsu \*Vn\*O \*Lfu \*Vn\*O "
Plays audio using the minute/second/frame (MSF) unit addressing format.
Audio play starts at the specified MSF address and continues through the
specified ending MSF address.
.LE
.RE
.LI "\*Lprevent\*O"
Prevents media removal from the selected device.
.LI "\*Lrelease\*O {\*Ldevice\*O | \*Lsimqueue\*O [\*Vnexus-information\*O]}"
Releases a reserved SCSI device or a frozen SIM queue, which occurs after
an error.  The \*Ldevice\*O parameter releases a reserved SCSI device by
issuing a release unit command.  Extent release for direct access device
is not implemented.  The \*Lsimqueue\*O parameter issues a Release SIMQ CCB
to release a frozen SIM queue.  If \*Vnexus-information\*O is not
specified, the SIM queue for the selected SCSI device is released.
.LI "\*Lreserve \*Vdevice\*O"
Reserves a SCSI device by issuing a reserve unit command.
.LI "\*Lreset\*O {\*Lbus\*O | \*Ldevice\*O} [\*Vnexus-information\*O]"
Resets the SCSI bus or the selected SCSI device.  The \*Lbus\*O
parameter issues a CAM Bus Reset CCB.  The \*Ldevice\*O parameter issues
a CAM Bus Device Reset CCB.
.LI "\*Lresume\*O"
Used with a CD-ROM to resume play after being paused.
.LI "\*Lstart\*O"
Starts a unit that has been stopped.
.LI "\*Lstop\*O"
Stops a unit.  This usually involves spinning the disk down
and keeping the heads at the landing cylinder.
.LI "\*Ltur\*O"
Issues a Test Unit Ready command to determine if a device is ready.
If a failure occurs, the sense data is automatically reported.
.LI "\*Lverify media\*O [\*Vtest-parameters\*O]"
Verifies the data written on the device media.  This usually involves reading
and performing an ECC check of the data.  If \*Vtest-parameters\*O are
not specified, the entire device media is verified.
.LE
.SS "Device and Bus Maintenance Commands"
The following device and bus maintenance commands are used to maintain SCSI
devices and the CAM I/O subsystem:
.VL 2m
.LI "\*Lchange pages\*O [\*Vmode-page\*O [\*Lpcf \*Vpage-control-field\*O]]"
Changes mode pages for a device.  The program prompts you with those page
fields that are marked changeable.  If \*Vmode-page\*O is not
specified, all pages supported by the device will be requested to be
changed.  The
\*Vpage-control-field\*O variable specifies the following page-control
fields: \*Lcurrent\*O, \*Lchangeable\*O, \*Ldefault\*O, or \*Lsaved\*O.
Refer to the description of the \*Lshow pages\*O command for a list of the
\*Vmode-page\*O variables.
.LI "\*Ldownload\*O \*Vfilename\*O [\*Lsave\*O]"
Used with any device that supports the downloading
of operating software via the Write Buffer command.
The \*Lsave\*O parameter directs the device to save the new operating
software in non-volatile memory if the command successfully completes.
.LI "\*Lformat\*O [\*Ldensity \*Vdensity-type\*O] [\*Ldefects \*Vdefect-list\*O]"
Formats both hard and flexible disk media.
The \*Vdensity-type\*O variable an be either \*LRX50\*O, \*LLD\*O,
\*LDD\*O, \*LHD/HD5\*O, \*LED\*O, or \*Lother\*O.  The
\*Vdefect-list\*O can be either \*Lall\*O, \*Lprimary\*O, or
\*Lnone\*O.
.LI "\*Lread media\*O \*Vtest-parameters\*O"
Reads the device media and performs a data comparison of the data read.
.LI "\*Lreassign lba\*O \*Vn\*O"
Reassigns a defective block on a disk device.
.LI "\*Ltest\*O [{\*Lcontroller\*O | \*Ldrive\*O | \*Lmemory\*L [\*Vtest-parameters\*O] | \*Lselftest\*O}]"
Performs tests on a controller.  This involves issuing send
and receive diagnostic commands or write and read buffer commands (for
a memory test) to the selected device.  The default is to perform the self
test, which is supported by most controllers.
.LI "\*Lwrite media \*Vtest-parameters\*O"
Writes to the device media using various data patterns.  You
must specify transfer parameters which specifies the media area to be
written.
.LE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-f\*O"
Specifies the raw device pathname.
You must specify a character device special file, for example,
\*L/dev/rrz3c\*O.
.sp
If the device name is not specified on the command line, the program
checks the environment variable SCU_DEVICE to define the device name.
.LE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Commands that modify device data or device parameters require write
access to the device entry.  Applications that change the volume level of
the CDROM must open the device for write access since a SCSI Mode Select
command is used to modify the volume level.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To format an RX26 diskette at extra density, enter:
.iS
scu> format density ED
.iE
.PP
To verify 1024 blocks starting at block 1000, enter:
.iS
scu> verify media starting 1000 length 1024
.iE
.PP
To display all changeable mode pages for a device, enter:
.iS
scu> show page pcf changeable
.iE
.PP
To display inquiry information for all devices on the first SCSI bus at lun 0
in the Equipment Device Table (EDT), enter:
.iS
scu> show edt bus 0 lun 0 full
.iE
.PP
To reassign logical block address ???, enter:
.iS
scu> reassign lba ???
.iE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
For all commands, \*Lscu\*O runs and exits with 0 for success, 1 for warning,
or -1 for failure status.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When a SCSI device error occurs, both the sense key and the addition sense
code or qualifier are decoded and displayed as follows:
.iS
.in -.25i
scu: Sense Key = 0x5 = ILLEGAL REQUEST - Illegal request or CDB parameter,
     Sense Code/Qualifier = (0x20, 0) = Invalid command operation code
.in +.25i
.iE
.PP
This error indicates that you have issued a command that is not supported
by the selected device.  This can happen for optional commands that are not
supported by all devices.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/sbin/scu\*O"
The SCSI Utility executable file.
.LI "\*L/dev/cam\*O"
The device entry for the CAM User Agent driver.
.LI "\*L/sbin/scu.hlp\*O"
Contains the \*Lscu\*O help information.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lfile\*O(1), \*Lmore\*O(1).
.PP
Functions:  \*Lopen\*O(2), \*Lclose\*O(2), \*Lioctl\*O(2), \*Lfopen\*O(3),
\*Lfgets\*O(3), \*Lfputs\*O(3), \*Lpopen\*O(3), \*Lpclose\*O(3),
\*Lmalloc\*O(3), \*Lprintf\*O(3), \*Lfprintf\*O(3).
.PP
American National Standard for Information Systems, \*ESmall Computer
Systems Interface - 2\*O (SCSI - 2), X3.131-199X
.PP
American National Standard for Information Systems, \*ESCSI-2 Common
Access Method: Transport and SCSI Interface Module\*O, working draft,
X3T9.2/90-186
.EQ
delim off
.EN
