.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: secsetup.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.9 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:22:09 $
.\"
.TH secsetup 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsecsetup\*O \- Security features setup script (Enhanced Security)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/secsetup\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "secsetup command"
The
.PN secsetup
command is an interactive facility that allows you to toggle
security features on your system.
You must first have loaded the enhanced security subset onto
your system before running the command.
.PP
The
.PN secsetup
command allows you to configure your system either for security auditing,
enhanced login, or any combination of those features.
You can run
.PN secsetup
while the system is in
multiuser mode (however,
you must reboot to cause the security level to change).
.PP
Because of the page table sharing mechanism used for shared
libraries, the normal file system permissions are not
adequate to protect against unauthorized reading.
The
.PN secsetup
command
will ask users if they wish to disable
segment sharing. Only the text part of the
library, not the data segment, is shared in this way.
If the user enters a '?' at the prompt
.PN secsetup
displays information about the choices.
If the segment sharing is already
disabled,
.PN secsetup
states that segment sharing is already
disabled.
When the user selects to disable the segment sharing, they
will be asked if they wish to have a new kernel built.
.PP
Depending on the security features chosen, when
.PN secsetup
completes
you may need to replace your system's kernel and reboot the system.
.\" Choosing auditing
.\"  or trusted path feature may
.\" requires you to re-build your kernel.
.\" If segment sharing is chosen, 
.\" you will be asked if you wish to have a new kernel built
.PP
The \*Laudit_setup\*O(8) reference page describes how to set up audit.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following is an example of how security can be setup using 
.PN secsetup :
.PP
# \*L/usr/sbin/secsetup\*O
.nf
.ft CW
Enter security level(BASE ENHANCED ?)[ENHANCED]: <RETURN>
ENHANCED security will take effect on the next reboot.
Do you wish to run the audit setup utility (yes no ?)[yes]: no
Do you wish to disable segment sharing(yes no ?)[no]: yes
Segment sharing has been disabled.
Updating configuration file to prevent segmentation...
Configuration file '/sys/conf/ALLERGY' updated.
Would you like to have a kernel built now (y/[n]):  y
Running 'doconfig -c ALLERGY'....
*** KERNEL CONFIGURATION AND BUILD PROCEDURE ***
Saving /sys/conf/ALLERGY as /sys/conf/ALLERGY.bck
Do you want to edit the configuration file? (y/n) [n]: n
*** PERFORMING KERNEL BUILD ***
        Working....Mon Aug 23 15:02:48 EDT 1993
        Working....Mon Aug 23 15:04:48 EDT 1993
        Working....Mon Aug 23 15:06:50 EDT 1993
        Working....Mon Aug 23 15:08:50 EDT 1993
The new kernel is /sys/ALLERGY/vmunix.
Configuration complete. You may move /sys/ALLERGY/vmunix
into place and reboot. The ENHANCED security level will 
take effect on the next system reboot.
Press return to continue: <RETURN>
.ft R
.fi
#
.SH FILES
.PP
.PN /etc/sec/audit_events
.br
.PN /etc/auth
.br
.PN /etc/passwd
.br
.PN /etc/rc.local
.br
.PN /etc/svc.conf
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Laudit_mask\*O(8),
\*Laudit_setup\*O(8),
\*Lauthcap\*O(4),
\*Lsvc.conf\*O(4)
.br
\*EEnhanced Security\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
