.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sendmail.8,v $ $Revision: 3.3.6.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 18:44:57 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.1
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)sendmail.8	6.4 (Berkeley) 6/24/90
.\" 
.TH sendmail 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsendmail\*O, \*Lnewaliases\*O, \*Lmailq\*O, \*Lsmtpd\*O \- Sends mail over the Internet
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/sendmail\*O
\*O[\*L\-\*Vflags\*O] [\*Vaddress\*O \&...]
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/newaliases\*O
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/mailq\*O
\*O[\*L\-v\*O]
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/smtpd\*O
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-ba\*O"
Goes into ARPANET mode.
All input lines must end with a \*LCR-LF\*O,
and all messages will be generated with a \*LCR-LF\*O at the end.
Also, the \*LFrom:\*O and \*LSender:\*O
fields are examined for the name of the sender.
.LI "\*L\-bd\*O"
Runs as a daemon.  This requires Berkeley Interprocess Communications (IPC).
The \*Lsendmail\*O command will fork and run in the background,
listening on the socket specified in the \*L/etc/services\*O file
for incoming SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer
Protocol) connections.  This is normally run when going to multiuser mode.
.IP
Using this flag is equivalent to invoking \*Lsendmail\*O as \*Lsmtpd\*O.
.LI "\*L\-bi\*O"
Initializes the alias database.  This is the same as invoking the
\*Lnewaliases\*O command.
.LI "\*L\-bm\*O"
Delivers mail in the usual way (default).
.LI "\*L\-bp\*O"
Prints a listing of the queue.    This is the same as invoking the
\*Lmailq\*O command.
.LI "\*L\-bs\*O"
Use the SMTP protocol as described in RFC821 on standard input and output.
This flag implies all the operations of the \*L\-ba\*O
flag that are compatible with SMTP.
.LI "\*L\-bt\*O"
Runs in address test mode.
This mode reads addresses and shows the steps in parsing;
it is used for debugging configuration tables.
.LI "\*L\-bv\*O"
Verifies names only.  Does not try to collect or deliver a message.
Verify mode is normally used for validating
users or mailing lists.
.LI "\*L\-bz\*O"
.\" Begin Digital specific information.
This option is not supported in
DEC OSF/1.
.\" End Digital specific information.
.IP
Creates the frozen configuration file.  A frozen configuration file
(\*Lsendmail.fc\*O) is
a copy of your \*Lsendmail.cf\*O file that has already been parsed.
This file should allow \*Lsendmail\*O to have faster startup times.
If you already have a frozen configuration file, you must run \*Lsendmail\*O
with the \*L\-bz\*O flag each time you make changes to the
\*Lsendmail.cf\*O file.  This will rebuild the frozen configuration file.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information.
.\" [The non-existence of space between -C and file is DEC-specific.]
.LI "\*L\-C\*Vfile\*O"
.\" End Digital-specific information.
Uses alternate configuration file.  The \*Lsendmail\*O command
refuses to run as root if an alternate configuration file is specified.
The frozen configuration file is bypassed.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information.
.\" [The non-existence of space between -d and X is DEC-specific.]
.LI "\*L\-d\*VX\*O"
.\" End Digital-specific information.
Sets debugging value to \*VX\*O.
A useful value is 21.\*Vn\*O, where \*Vn\*O is any nonzero integer
less than 100.  This produces information regarding address parsing
and is typically used with the \*L\-bt\*O flag.  Higher values of
\*Vn\*O produce more verbose information.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information.
.\" [The non-existence of space between -F and fullname is DEC-specific.]
.LI "\*L\-F\*O \*Vfullname\*O"
.\" End Digital-specific information.
Sets the full name of the sender.
.LI "\*L\-f\*O \*Vname\*O"
Sets the name of the \*LFrom:\*O user field
(that is, the sender of the mail).
\*L\-f\*O can only be used by trusted users
(normally root, daemon, and network)
or if the person you are trying to become
is the same as the person you are.
.LI "\*L\-h\*O\*VN\*O"
Sets the hop count to \*VN.\*O
The hop count is incremented every time the mail is
processed.  When it reaches a limit,
the mail is returned with an error message,
the victim of an aliasing loop.
If not specified, \*CReceived\*O lines in the message are counted.
.LI "\*L\-n\*O"
Does not do aliasing or forwarding.
.LI "\*L\-o\*O\*VXvalue\*O"
Sets \*VX\*O to the specified \*Vvalue\*O.  Processing flags specified with
\*L\-o\*O are described in the \*LProcessing Flags\*O section later in this
reference page.
.LI "\*L\-q\*O[\*Vtime\*O]"
Processes saved messages in the queue at given intervals.
If \*Vtime\*O is omitted, processes the queue once.
The \*Ltime\*O command is given as a tagged number,
with \*Ls\*O being seconds, \*Lm\*O being minutes, \*Lh\*O being hours,
\*Ld\*O being days, and \*Lw\*O being weeks.  For example,
\*L\-q1h30m\*O or \*L\-q90m\*O would both set the time-out to 1
hour and 30 minutes.  If the \*Ltime\*O command is specified, the
\*Lsendmail\*O command will run in background mode.  This flag can be used
safely with \*L\-bd\*O.
.LI "\*L\-r\|\*Vname\*O"
An alternate and obsolete form of the \*L\-f\*O flag.
.LI "\*L\-t\*O"
Reads a message for recipients.
The \*LTo:\*O, \*LCc:\*O, and \*LBcc:\*O lines will be scanned for
recipient addresses.
The \*LBcc:\*O line will be deleted before transmission.
Any addresses in the argument list will be suppressed;
that is, they will not receive copies even if listed in the message header.
.LI "\*L\-v\*O"
Goes into verbose mode.  Alias expansions will be announced, and so forth.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lsendmail\*O command sends a message to one or more
recipients, routing the message over whatever networks
are necessary.  \*Lsendmail\*O does internetwork forwarding as necessary
to deliver the message to the correct place.
.PP
The \*Lsendmail\*O command is not intended as a user interface routine.
Other programs provide user-friendly front ends; \*Lsendmail\*O
is used only to deliver preformatted messages.
.PP
With no flags, \*Lsendmail\*O reads its standard input up to an End-of-File
or to a line consisting only of a single \*L\&.\*O (dot), and sends a copy of
the message found there to all of the addresses listed.  It determines the
network(s) to use based on the syntax and contents of the addresses.
.PP
Local addresses are looked up in a file and aliased appropriately.
Aliasing can be prevented by preceding the address with a \*L\\\*O (backslash).
Normally the sender is not included in any alias
expansions; for example, if \*Ljohn\*O sends to \*Lgroup\*O,
and \*Lgroup\*O includes \*Ljohn\*O in the expansion,
then the letter will not be delivered to \*Ljohn\*O.
.SS Processing Flags
There are a number of \*Lsendmail\*O processing flags that can be set.
Normally, these will only be used by a system administrator.
Processing flags can be set either on the command line
using the \*L\-o\*O flag or in the configuration file.  (Refer to the
\*Lsendmail.cf\*O reference page for details on the \*Lsendmail.cf\*O file.)
.PP
The processing flags are as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LA\*O\*Vfile\*O"
Uses alternate alias file.
.LI "\*Lc\*O"
On mailers that are considered ``expensive'' to connect to,
does not initiate immediate connection.
This requires queuing.
.LI "\*Ld\*O\*Vx\*O"
Sets the delivery mode to
\*Vx\*O.
Delivery modes are
\*Li\*O for interactive (synchronous) delivery,
\*Lb\*O for background (asynchronous) delivery,
and \*Lq\*O for queue only (that is,
actual delivery is done the next time the queue is run).
.LI "\*LD\*O"
Tries to automatically rebuild the alias database
if necessary.
.LI "\*Le\*O\*Vx\*O"
Sets error processing to mode \*Vx\*O.  Valid modes are the following:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lm\*O"
Mails the error message to the user's mailbox.
.LI "\*Lw\*O"
Writes the error message to the terminal or mails it if the user is
not logged in.
.LI "\*Lp\*O"
Displays the error message on the terminal (default).
.LI "\*Lq\*O"
Throws away the error message and returns the exit status only.
.LI "\*Le\*O"
Mails the error message to the user's mailbox,
but always exits with a 0 (zero) exit status (normal return).
.LE
.IP
If the text of the message is not
mailed by modes \*Lm\*O or \*Lw\*O and if the sender is a local
user, a copy of the message is appended to the
\*Ldead.letter\*O file in the sender's home directory.
.LI "\*LF\*O\*Vmode\*O"
The mode to use when creating temporary files.
.LI "\*Lf\*O"
Saves UNIX compatible style \*LFrom:\*O lines at the front of messages.
.LI "\*Lg\*O\*VN\*O"
The default group ID to use when calling mailers.
.LI "\*LH\*O\*Vfile\*O"
The SMTP help file.
.LI "\*Li\*O"
Does not consider a \*L\&.\*O (dot) on a line by itself to be a message
terminator.
.LI "\*LL\*O\*Vnumber\*O"
Specifies the log level to be the value supplied in the \*Vnumber\*O
argument.  Each number includes the activities of all
numbers of lesser value and adds the activity that it represents.
Valid levels and the activities that they represent are as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L0\*O"
Prevents logging.
.LI "\*L1\*O"
Logs major problems only.
.LI "\*L2\*O"
Logs message collections and failed deliveries.
.LI "\*L3\*O"
Logs successful deliveries.
.LI "\*L4\*O"
Logs messages deferred (for example, because the host is down).
.LI "\*L5\*O"
Logs messages that are placed in the queue (normal event).
.LI "\*L6\*O"
Logs unusual but benign incidents (for example,
trying to process a locked file).
.LI "\*L9\*O"
Logs the internal queue ID to external message ID mappings.  This
can be useful for tracing a message as it travels between several hosts.
.LI "\*L12\*O"
Logs messages that are of interest when debugging.
.LI "\*L16\*O"
Logs verbose information regarding the queue.
.LE
.LI "\*Lm\*O"
Sends to me (the sender) also if I am in an alias expansion.
.LI "\*Lo\*O"
If set, this message may have old style headers.  If not set,
this message is guaranteed to have new style headers
(that is, commas instead of spaces between addresses).
If set, an adaptive algorithm is used that will correctly
determine the header format in most cases.
.LI "\*LQ\*O\*Vqueuedir\*O"
Selects the directory in which to queue messages.
.LI "\*Lr\*O\*Vtimeout\*O"
The time-out on reads.  If none is set, \*Lsendmail\*O
will wait forever for a mailer.
This flag violates the word (if not the intent) of the SMTP specification,
so the time-out should probably be fairly large.
.LI "\*LS\*O\*Vfile\*O"
Saves statistics in the named \*Vfile\*O.
.LI "\*Ls\*O"
Always instantiates the queue file,
even under circumstances where it is not strictly necessary.
This provides safety against system crashes during delivery.
.LI "\*LT\*O\*Vtime\*O"
Sets the time-out on undelivered messages in the queue to the specified time.
After delivery has failed (for example, because of a host being down)
for this amount of time, failed messages will be returned to the sender.
The default is 3 days.
.LI "\*Lt\*O\*Vstz,dtz\*O"
Sets the name of the time zone.
.LI "\*Lu\*O\*VN\*O"
Sets the default user ID for mailers.
.LI "\*Lv\*O"
Runs in verbose mode.
.LE
.SS Aliases Interpretation
In aliases, the first character of a name can be
a vertical bar to cause interpretation of the rest of the name as a command
to pipe the mail to.  It may be necessary to quote the name
to keep \*Lsendmail\*O from suppressing the blanks from between arguments.
For example, a file can contain a common alias such as:
.oS
msgs: "|/usr/bin/msgs -s"
.oE
.PP
Aliases can also have the syntax \*C:include:\*Vfilename\*O
to ask \*Lsendmail\*O to read the named file for a list of recipients.
For example, an alias such as:
.oS
poets: ":include:/usr/local/lib/poets.list"
.oE
reads \*L/usr/local/lib/poets.list\*O
for the list of addresses making up the group.
.\" Begin Digital correction.
.\" This is not so much a correction, but additional information
.\" our engineers thought was useful.
.IP
You can also use the Network Information Service (NIS) to distribute
your aliases to other systems.
.\" End Digital correction.
.SS Exit Status
The \*Lsendmail\*O command returns an exit status describing what it did.
The codes are defined in \*L<sysexits.h>\*O:
.VL 9m
.LI "\*CEX_OK\*O"
Successful completion on all addresses.
.LI "\*CEX_NOUSER\*O"
The username was not recognized.
.LI "\*CEX_UNAVAILABLE\*O"
A catchall meaning necessary resources were not available.
.LI "\*CEX_SYNTAX\*O"
There is a syntax error in the address.
.LI "\*CEX_SOFTWARE\*O"
There is an internal software error, including bad arguments.
.LI "\*CEX_OSERR\*O"
There is a temporary operating system error, such as \*Ccannot fork\*O.
.LI "\*CEX_NOHOST\*O"
The hostname was not recognized.
.LI "\*CEX_TEMPFAIL\*O"
The message could not be sent immediately, but was queued.
.LE
.SS Links to sendmail
Three additional commands are links to \*Lsendmail\*O:
.VL 8m
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\" changed bin to sbin for mailq and newaliasses
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/mailq\*O"
Prints the contents of the mail queue.
This command is the same as
running \*Lsendmail\*O with the \*L\-bp\*O flag.
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/newaliases\*O"
Builds a new copy of the alias database from the
\*L/var/adm/sendmail/aliases\*O file.
This command is the same as
running \*Lsendmail\*O with the \*L\-bi\*O flag.
.\"End Digital correction
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/smtpd\*O"
Runs \*Lsendmail\*O as a daemon.
This command is equivalent to invoking \*Lsendmail\*O with the
\*L\-bd\*O flag.
.LE
.SS Mail Addresses
Mail addresses are based on the domain address (Internet) protocol.
.iX "addressing mail"
.iX "mail" "addresses"
These addresses have the form:
.iS
\*Vuser\*L@\*Vhost.domain\*O
.iE
.PP
Note that the configuration file provided with \*Lsendmail\*O
specifies that blanks in
addresses be converted to dots before being transmitted.
This convention follows the Internet mail protocol described in RFC822,
but does not match the Internet mail protocol described in RFC733
(NIC41952).  You can change this setting by setting the \*LOB\*O flag
in the \*Lsendmail\*O configuration file (see the \*Lsendmail.cf(4)\*O
reference page).
.PP
A \*Vdomain\*O is a logical grouping of systems that are connected
together by physical network links.  No direct relationship exists between
the actual physical interconnections and the way in which the systems are
grouped in the domain.  The \*Vdomain name\*O identifies a specific
domain within a larger group of domains.
The domain name has the format of a tree structure.
Each node (or leaf) on the tree corresponds to a resource set,
and each node can create and contain new domains below it.
The actual domain name of a node is the path from the root of the
tree to that node.
.PP
For example, if node \*Lhera\*O is part of the domain
\*LOSF\*O, which is in turn a subdomain of \*LORG\*O, a
message sent to user \*Lgeo\*O at that address, uses this format:
.oS
hera.OSF.ORG
.oE
.PP
The message router (usually \*Lsendmail\*O) must determine how to send
the message to its final destination.  If the router is at \*Lhera\*O,
it delivers the message to user \*Lgeo\*O.  If the router is at another
system within the \*LOSF\*O domain, it corresponds
with the name server for that domain to find out how to deliver the message.
If the router is
not a part of the \*LOSF\*O domain but is in a domain that is under
the \*LORG\*O domain, it corresponds with the name server for the
\*LORG\*O domain to find out how to deliver the message.
The respective name server returns a network address to the router.
That network address determines the actual path that the message takes to its
destination.
.PP
The domain address is read from right to left, with each domain in the
address separated from the next domain by a \*L\&.\*O (dot).
This format does not imply any routing.
Thus, although the example is specified as a \*LORG\*O address,
the message might actually travel by a different route if that were more
convenient or efficient.  At one site, the message associated
with the sample address goes directly from the sender to node
\*Lhera\*O over a local area network.  At another site, it might be sent
over a UUCP network or a combination of other delivery methods.
.PP
Normally, the actual routing of a message is handled automatically.
However, you can route the message manually
through several specified hosts to get it to its final destination.
An address using intermediate hosts, called a \*Vroute address\*O,
has the following form:
.iS
\*L@\*Vhosta\*L,@\*Vhostb\*L:\*Vuser\*L@\*Vhostc\*O
.iE
.PP
This address specifies that the message goes first to the
remote system represented by \*Vhosta\*O, then to the
remote system represented by \*Vhostb\*O, and finally to the
remote system represented by \*Vhostc\*O.
This path is forced even if there is a more efficient route to \*Vhostc\*O.
.PP
In some cases you may abbreviate the address rather than entering
the entire domain name.  In general, systems in the
same domain do not need to use the full domain name.
For example, a user on node \*Lzeus.XYZ.COM\*O can send a
message to \*Lgeo@hera.XYZ.COM\*O by entering
only \*Lgeo@hera\*O because they are in the same local domain,
.\" Begin Digital correction.
.\" Changed \*LXYZ\*O to \*LXYZ.COM\*O.
\*LXYZ.COM\*O.
.\" End Digital correction.
.PP
Other mail address formats exist and the mail routing
program (\*Lsendmail\*O) converts most of these other formats to
a format that the network routing system can use.  However, if you use the
domain address format, the routing program operates more efficiently.
.PP
For example, if \*Lsendmail\*O receives an address in the following
format:
.iS
\*L@\*Vhost\*L:\*Vuser\*O
.iE
it converts it to the corresponding domain address format:
.oS
\*Vuser\*L@\*Vhost\*O
.oE
.PP
Similarly, if \*Lsendmail\*O receives an address in the following
format:
.iS
\*Vhost\*L!\*Vuser\*O
.iE
the mail routing program routes the message directly to the
\*Luucp\*O command.  However, when sending mail via \*Luucp\*O, you must
include a route address that indicates which UUCP host(s) to send
the message through to get to the final destination.
.PP
To route messages through the UUCP network, use one of the following domain
address formats.  Your choice depends on the way in which the systems at
your site are connected:
.AL
.LI
\*L@\*Vsystem_name\*L.\*Vdomain_name\*L:\*Vuucp-route\*L!\*Vuser-ID\*O
.IP
For example, the address:
.iS
@zeus:hera!amy
.iE
sends a message to user \*Lamy\*O on UUCP host
\*Lhera\*O by way of
system \*Lzeus\*O.  The address:
.iS
@apollo.802:merlin!lgh
.iE
sends a message to user \*Llgh\*O on UUCP host \*Lmerlin\*O
via system \*Lapollo\*O under the local domain \*L802\*O.
.LI
\*Vuucp-route\*L:!\*Vuser-ID\*L@\*Vsystem_name\*L.\*Vdomain_name\*O
.IP
In this case, the address:
.iS
merlin!arthur!amy@hera.802
.iE
sends a message to user \*Lamy\*O on
system \*Lhera\*O under domain \*L802\*O via the UUCP link \*Lmerlin\*O
through \*Larthur\*O.
.LI
\*Vsystem_name\*L.\*Vdomain_name\*L:\*Vuucp-route\*L:!\*Vuser-ID\*L@\*Vsystem_name\*.\*Vdomain_name\*O
.IP
In this example, the address:
.iS
@apollo.802:merlin!arthur!amy@hera.802
.iE
sends a message to user \*Lamy\*O on system \*Lhera\*O under domain \*L802\*O
that first goes through \*Lapollo\*O, the gateway node for domain
\*L802\*O, and then through the UUCP link \*Lmerlin\*O through \*Larthur\*O.
(Including \*L802\*O in this example is optional because
the two domain names are identical.)
.LI
\*Vhosta\*L!\*Vhostb\*L!\*Vhostc\*L!\*Vuser\*O
.IP
This example is a purely UUCP route address.
.iS
zeus!hera!kronos!amy
.iE
sends a message to \*Lamy\*O on \*Lkronos\*O via the UUCP link
\*Lzeus\*O through \*Lhera\*O.
.LI
\*L@\*Vhosta\*L\&.UUCP:@\*Vhostb\*L\&.UUCP:\*Vuser\*L@\*Vhostc\*O
.IP
This example, like the previous one, is a purely UUCP route
address.
.iS
@zeus.UUCP:@hera.UUCP:amy@kronos.UUCP
.iE
sends a message to \*Lamy\*O on \*Lkronos\*O via the UUCP link
\*Lzeus\*O through \*Lhera\*O.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 14m
.LI"\*L/usr/sbin/sendmail\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\" The following path was incorrect.
.\".LI "\*L/var/adm/sendmail.cf\*O "
.LI "\*L/var/adm/sendmail/sendmail.cf\*O "
The configuration file.
.\"End Digital correction.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/sendmail/aliases\*O"
The raw data for alias names.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/sendmail/aliases.pag\*O"
This file and the \*Laliases.dir\*O file comprise the database of alias names.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/sendmail/aliases.dir\*O "
This file and the \*Laliases.pag\*O file comprise the database of alias names.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/sendmail/sendmail.fc\*O "
A frozen configuration.
.\" Begin Digital specific information.
.IP
This option is not supported in
DEC OSF/1.
.\" End Digital specific information.
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/sendmail.hf\*O "
The help file.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/sendmail/sendmail.st\*O "
The collected statistics.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Changed path name per QAR 9939.
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/mqueue/*\*O"
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
The temporary files.
.LE
.PP
Except for \*L/usr/sbin/sendmail\*O and \*L/var/adm/sendmail.cf\*O,
the preceding pathnames are all specified in the
\*L/var/adm/sendmail.cf\*O file, so they may vary on your system.
.\" Begin Digital specific information.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The \*L-bz\*O option is not supported in
DEC OSF/1.
.\" End Digital specific information.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lmail\*O(1), \*Lmailx\*O(1), \*Lrc0\*O(8)
.PP
Functions:  \*Lsyslog\*O(3)
.PP
Files:  \*Laliases\*O(4), \*Lsendmail.cf\*O(4)
.PP
Specifications: RFC819, RFC821, RFC822
.EQ
delim off
.EN
