.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sendmail.m4.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/12 19:55:56 $
.\"
.TH sendmail.m4 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsendmail.m4\*O \- Introduction to using \*Lm4\*O macros to create a \*Lsendmail.cf\*O configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "sendmail.m4" "introduction"
.iX "sendmail.cf" "creating with m4 macros"
The \*Lmailsetup\*O script enables you to create new mail configurations.  If
you have experience creating \*Lsendmail.cf\*O configuration files or
your system requires specialized configuration files, you may want to create
your configuration files manually.
.PP
The macros described in this reference page can help you generate a
configuration file manually.
These parameters are then used as input to generate
a new \*Lsendmail.cf\*O.  It is suggested that you save different configurations
under the name \*Vhostname\*L.m4\*O (where \*Vhostname\*O is the name of
your system) or some other suitable mnemonic.
.PP
After you create the \*Lm4\*O file with the parameters you want, you can
generate the \*Lsendmail.cf\*O file by issuing the following command:
.iS
# m4 -D_Configfile=\*Vhostname\*L.m4 sendmail m4\*O > sendmail.cf
.iE
You must be in the \*L/var/adm/sendmail\*O directory to use this
command.
.PP
The \*Lsendmail.m4\*O package used by
DEC OSF/1
provides the following functions:
.ML
.LI
Rewrites addresses, encapsulating mail from non-Internet protocols (for
example, DECnet) within pseudodomains.  This helps to ensure that replies
are sent back to the correct address, where they can be handled
appropriately.
.LI
Performs routing, based on th domain to which the mail is sent.
.LI
Supports multiple return address formats, including domain based
addresses.  For example, a host with the name
\*Lmyhost.mysite.ecd.com\*O would normally format the mail address as
\*Luser@myhost.mysite.ecd.com\*O.  By using the \*L_ExportedName\*O
parameter, you can set the return address to be \*Lmysite.ecd.com\*O.
By using the \*L_MailHub\*O and \*LMyDomain|*O parameters, your mail
system recognizes the phrase \*Lmysite.ecd.com\*O as a synonym for this
host.
.LI
Supports optionally stripping off host names for mail sent within your
local domain, leaving the unqualified user name.  This feature can
improve the readability of mail sent within you local domain.
.LE
The \*Ldnl\*O command is "delete to newline" command and causes the \*Lm4\*O compiler
to ignore the \*Ldnl\*O characters and all text that
follows it, up to and including the end of line.  If you do not follow a
\*Ldefine\*O command with a \*Ldnl\*O command, then the newline after the
right parenthesis (\)\) is emitted into
the output (which is a \*Lsendmail.cf\*O file).
.PP
Blank lines are permitted in the \*Lsendmail.cf\*O file; however, they
are unnecessary and not recommended.
.PP
Braces ({}) are used as quoting characters.  You can use them even when
they are not required.
.PP
Note that null definitions have the following of the form:
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine(\*VParameter\*O, {})
.sp
.sE
The only rule you must follow in creating the configuration \*Lm4\*O file is to
surround literal text with braces ({}); however, you must leave macro names
(which you presumably want expanded by \*Lm4\*O) unquoted. (That is, do
not enclose macros that yu want expanded in braces ({}).)
.SS Mailers
The \*Lsendmail\*O program invokes a mailer to handle your mail.
Usually, this is \*Llocal\*O (for local delivery on the host),
\*Lsmtp\*O (standard SMTP), \*Lsmtpl\*O (SMTP local), or *Lsmtpr\*O
(SMTP to relay) for delivery over the Internet.
These mailers (\*Lsmtp\*O, \*Lsmtpl\*O, and *Lsmtpr\*O) invoke SMTP
to deliver the mail; however, they differ in
how they rewrite the return address.  If you are in doubt as to which
mailer to use, it is safest to use \*Lsmtp\*O.
.PP
The \*Lsmtp\*O mailer qualifies you mail with the \*ExportedName\*O
parameter, except for mail sent from \*LNonHiddenUsers\* or from an
alias (if \*LAliasesLocal\*O is true).
.PP
The \*Lsmtpl\*O mailer handles mail sent within you local domain.  This
mailer is used when mail is sent to users within the local domain.
Depending on how the \*L_MailCluster\*O and \*L_NonHiddenUsers\*O
parameters are defined, the nostname is removed from the return address
before the mail is sent.
.PP
The \*Lsmtpr\*O mailer always removes the hostname, except for
\*L_NonHiddenUsers\*O.  This is useful when the relay machine is a mail
hub and has aliases for all users in your mail system.
.SS Routing
The \*Lsendmail.m4\*O package performs some routing decisions based on
the domain in which the address ends.  In general, you can configure
your system to check for some special cases (for example, DECnet or UUCP
style addresses).  If the address does not conform to any of the cases
specified, it will check to see if the mail resides in your local domain
(\*L_GateLocal), parent domain (\*LGateParent\*O), or is outside your
local network (\*LGateINET\*O).  You can configure your system to pass
mail to and from the Internet by setting the \*L_GateINET\*O parameter
to the name of the Internet gateway on your local network and leaving the
\*LGateDomain\*O and \*LGateParent\*O parameters blank.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The following list provides definitions of the parameters
used in the configuration files.  The parameters appear in the recommended
usage order.
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_ParentDomain\*O, {\*Vyyy.xxx\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro specifies the name of the next-highest domain above your
own (\*Vyyy.xxx\*O).  It is
used to determine which hosts you can send mail to that might be close
enough to be reached directly, and to figure out where \*LMyDomains\*O
are located.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_MyDomains\*O, {\*Vdomain\*O ... })\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro specifies the list of all the domains under \*LParentDomain\*O
that are aliases for
your own.  It is a list of single tokens separated with blanks.  These
are qualified under \*LParentDomain\*O in actual use.  You must include the
single-token component of \*LMyDomain\*O.  For example, if the
\*LParentDomain\*O is ECD.COM and \*LMyDomain\*O is \*LAP.ECD.COM\*O, then
\*LMyDomains\*O must include at least the token \*LAP\*O.  This
parameter is used in conjunction with the \*L_MailHub\*O parameter.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine(\*L_MyDomain\*O, {\*Vdomain\*O.}\*L_ParentDomain\*O)\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro specifies the fully-qualified domain that you are in.
It must end in \*L_ParentDomain\*O.
.PP
If you set both \*LMyDomain\*O and \*LParentDomain\*O
to the string \*LLOCAL\*O, \*Lsendmail\*O assumes that you do not have
a domain, but instead use single-token hostnames (which can include
dashes and underscores but not dots) and that you are using \*L/etc/hosts\*O
or NIS, but not BIND.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_MyNicknames\*O, {})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro is used to initialize the \*L$=w\*O parameter.  If your host is known
by several names inside of \*L_MyDomain\*O, you must put the first token of all
names (optionally including the first token of your \*L/bin/hostname\*O)
into this list.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_exportedName\*O, \*L_MyDomain)\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro specifies the domain name (\*L@DOMAIN\*O) appended to
any mail that address that leaves the local domain and does not have
a domain name in it's address.  (For example, local user names do not
have the domain name in the address.)
.PP
Usually, \*L_MyDomain\*O is specified; therefore, the mail leaves the
domain with a host name (such as, \*Lwicked@AP.ECD.COM\*O) even though there is
no such host.
.PP
If you do this, you need an MX RR at the root ("@")
of the domain that points to some set of mail servers whose
\*LMyDomain\*O's variables include your domain.  This is irrelevant if
you are using \*LLOCAL\*O for \*LMyDomain\*O and \*LParentDomain\*O.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_MailCluster\*O, {\*LT\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
Use this macro if you are using \*Lrdist\*O, or NIS to insure that all
aliases on all machines in your local domain are equivalent. (They do not
need to have the same values, but the same alias names must be present
on all machines.)
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.rS 5
It is recommended that you use this macro, unless you have specific
reasons for not using it.
.sp 6p
.rE
If you use this macro, mail sent to \*L@MyDomain\*O is treated as
local mail, which means that any host in the domain can strip off
the \*L@MyDomain\*O and
search its aliases database to decide what to do with the message.
Also, setting this variable will cause mail sent between hosts in
the local domain to have no \*L@hostname\*O appended to any address, which
is a great boon to the readability of local mail headers.
.PP
Mail sent to other hosts in the local domain with
.nL
\*LMailCluster\*O turned
on will have the hostname (rather than \*LExportedName\*O) appended to the
username.  Because it is local mail, you know it came from some host in
the local domain and you presumably want to know which which host.
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.rS 5
Setting \*LExportedName\*O to \*LMyDomain\*O and turning on \*LMailCluster\*O,
creates a mail cluster where all mail names are equivalent on
all hosts in the domain.  This simplifies the address formats for all
local mail.
.sp 6p
.rE
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_MailHub\*O, {\*LT\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
You use this macro if your machine recognizes mail to \*Luser@localdomain\*O
and therefore can access anyone's mailbox (usually
through an aliases file containing the real mailboxes for
everyone who might receive such mail).  A Mail Hub treats all
mail to \*Luser@localdomain\*O as local mail by using the
aliases file.
.PP
This is different than a Mail Cluster, where every host acts
as a Mail Hub (by virtue of everyone having the same "all knowing"
aliases file).
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_QueueDir\*O, {\*Vdirectory\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro specifies the mail spool location (which is usually
\*L/var/spool/mqueue\*O).
Note that there is no advantage to using \*L/usr/spool/mail\*O for this
if that is a \*Lsymlink\*O to \*L/var/spool/mail\*O.  Using the correct names
and avoiding \*Lsymlinks\*O is recommended.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_TrustedUsers\*O, {\*Vlist\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro specifies the list of user names that are allowed to run
\*Lsendmail\*O with the \*L-f\*O flag that
sets the envelope sender address.  There are users
that have a legitimate need to use the \*L-f\*O; however, for security
reasons, it is
recommended that only those users be allowed that option.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_NonHiddenUsers\*O, {\*Vlist\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro specifies the list of users that have the
.nL
\*L@hostname\*O of the
sending host added to their \*LFrom:\*O line, if they send mail to some other
host in the local domain.  This procedure is performed regardless of
the \*LMailCluster\*O and \*LMailHub\*O.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_UnqualifiedW\*O, {\*LT\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro sets the unqualified hostname.
.PP
This macro is not required. Under
DEC OSF/1
\*Lsendmail\*O it is recommended that you do not use this parameter.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_TagPOP\*O, {\*LT\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro enables your machine to recognize POP customers as
\*Vusername\*L.POP\*O.  This is preferable to \*LHostPOP\*O.
as explained below,
If you use this macro, you must format your aliases as follows:
.sS
.sp
\*Vusername\*O:\*Vusername\*L.POP\*O
.sp
.sE
Instead of the following format:
.sS
.sp
\*Vusername\*O:\*Vusername\*L@POP\*O
.sp
.sE
Be aware that older versions of the \*Lpopaka\*O utility create the \*L@pop\*O
style address.  If you want to change, turn both \*LTagPOP\*O and \*LHostPOP\*O
on and wait for a new \*Lpopaka\*O utility, at which point you can shut off
\*LHostPOP\*O.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_HostPOP\*O, {\*LT\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro enables your system to be able to recognize POP customers as
\*Lusername@POP\*O.  Older popaka utilities generate aliases in this form.
If you are using an older version of the \*Lpopaka\*O utilities, you can
enable \*LHostPOP\*O.
However, you will not be able to name any host in your domain "POP"
because it would conflict with the \*Lsendmail.cf\*O file's internal meaning
for the \*L@POP\*O string.  It is recommend that you use
.nL
\*LTagPOP\*O.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_DECNet\*O, {\*LT\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro enables you to recognize DECnet-style addresses or to communicate
with DECnet.
.\" I don't think we need to mention the following.
.\"
.\"BUG: the \*Lm4\*O file has UMC embedded within it.  This implies that
.\"we need both DECnet and UMC config'd.  WRONG.  We can still relay
.\"to another machine, or reply.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_DollarY\*O, {})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro only applies to DECnet. You use this macro to
define this to your DECnet node name if your sendmail binary
does not define \*L$y\*O as the result of DECnet's
.nL
\*Lgetnodename()\*O call.  If you have such a binary it is best not to
define this variable because that way you can share a single \*Lsendmail.cf\*O
file across all of your DECnet nodes.  Otherwise you need to build a
separate \*Lsendmail\*O configuration file for DECnet node, just to
set \*L$y\*O.
DEC OSF/1
automatically defines \*L$y\*O if DECnet's installed.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_UTK_Mail11\*O, {\*LT\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro applies to DECnet only.  You can use this macro, if you are using
the UTK Mail11 package.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_UUCP\*O, {\*LT\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro enables your system to recognize UUCP addresses.
If you do not also define \*L_GateUUCP\*O, you must run UUCP
on your host.  In most cases, mail with UUCP addresses is relayed to a
host that recognizes UUCP addresses to process the address.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_POP\*O, {\*LT\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro enables your system to recognize POP customers.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_RFC976\*O, {})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro instructs \*Lsendmail\*O to format your headers in RFC 976
format. For example:
.oS
From: waxie@ap.ecd.com (Paul Waxie)
.oE
If you use this macro, you should define this to be \*LT\*O.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_TransDomain\*O, {\*Vtransport\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.nL
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_GateDomain\*O, {})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
These macros control how mail that is destined for some other host in
your local domain is handled.
.PP
\*LTransDomain\*O is the transport used to reach other hosts or to reach
the designated gateway (usually \*Lsmtpl\*O which specifies
local SMTP).
.PP
If you decide to route all such local-domain mail
through a gateway, then specify the name of the gateway in \*LGateDomain\*O.
If you want the mail to go directly to the gateway, do not specify
anything for the \*LGateDomain\*O parameter.
.\" I don't think the following is necessary.
.\".PP
.\"It is theoretically possible to set \*LMyDomain\*O and \*LParentDomain\*O to
.\"\*LLOCAL\*O and then to set \*LTransDomain\*O to \*Luucp\*O or \*Lmail11\*O,
.\"but all this would buy you is the ability to send using user@host syntax instead of the native
.\"host!user or host::user syntax.  In any case it has not been tested.
.PP
In practice, \*LTransDomain\*O is always set to \*Lsmtpl\*O and \*LGateDomain\*O
is always either null or the name of your local mail hub.  However,
there is no penalty for sending local mail directly between workstations
and no advantage for sending such mail through your mail hub.
Using a gateway is not recommended for local mail.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_TransParent\*O, {\*Vsmtp\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.nL
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_GateParent\*O, {})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
These two macros perform the same functions as \*LTransDomain\*O and
\*LGateDomain\*O except that they control mail which is sent to the parent
domain rather than to the local domain.
.PP
In most domains, there are
no security filters that restrict SMTP traffic between hosts in the
domain. If that is true in your domain then it is recommended that you
set
.nL
\*LTransParent\*O to \*Lsmtp\*O and set \*LGateParent\*O to null string.
.PP
As with local-domain mail, there is no real advantage to using a
gateway for local mail.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_TransINET\*O, {\*Vtransport\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.nL
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_GateINET\*O, {\*Vhost\*O.}\*L_MyDomain\*O)\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
These macros specify the transport to be used and the gateway host for
mail leaving the domain.
.PP
If you are directly connected to the Internet,
then you can set \*LTransINET\*O to \*Lsmtp\*O and leave \*LGateINET\*O empty.
.PP
If you need to use a gateway to reach the Internet, then
set \*LTransINET\*O to the protocol used by the gateway (\*Luucp\*O,
\*Lmail11\*O, or \*Lsmtp\*O) and set \*LGateINET\*O to the name of the host
you will reach through that transport.  That host will presumably
deliver your mail to its ultimate recipient or forward it to another host
that will deliver the mail or forward it on.
.PP
If you leave \*LGateINET\*O empty, then \*LTransINET\*O is ignored because it
must be the local \*Lsmtp\*O transport.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_TransUUCP\*O, {\*Vtransport\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.nL
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_GateUUCP\*O, {\*Lhost\*O.}\*L_MyDomain\*O)\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
These macros specify the transport and the gateway for UUCP mail.
Note that if \*LGateUUCP\*O is empty, then
\*LTransUUCP\*O is ignored since the local uucp transport must be used.
In which case \*Luux\*O is used as the transport.
.PP
You might set \*LTransUUCP\*O to \*Lsmtpr\*O \*LGateUUCP\*O host has aliases
for all of your users.  This permits outbound UUCP addresses to omit
your local host name.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_MyUUCPname\*O, {\*Vhost\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro specifies the UUCP host name for your system.  Use this
macro only if you are running UUCP on your system.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_UuxArgs\*O, {\*Voptions\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro specifies the arguments for UUCP. For a complete list of the
possible options, see uux(1).
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_GateUsenet\*O, {\*Lhost\*O.}\*L_MyDomain\*O)\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro specifies the name of a host on your network that
is capable of accepting mail sent to the USENET.
.PP
If there is no such host on your network, leave this macro empty.
.PP
Note that
DEC OSF/1
does not currently include the software necessary
on the receiving host, because it varies according to whether you are running
\*LC News\*O or \*LB News\*O or \*LINN\*O.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_AddMail11Cl\*O, {\*Vpseudodomain\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro applies to DECnet mail only.  If your users or your inbound
\*Lmail11\*O listener puts
a pseudodomain name other than \*L.DNET\*O on incoming addresses,
\*Lsendmail\*O needs to know.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_TransIV\*O, {\*Vtransport\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.nL
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_GateIV\*O, {})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro applies to DECnet only.
.PP
If \*LGateIV\*O is set to an empty string, then \*Lsendmail\*O
attempts to deliver the mail directly using \*LTransIV\*O (which is almost
always \*Lsmtp\*O).
.PP
If you have MX RRs for all of your \*Lmail11\*O hosts then
you can use SMTP to reach them or at least the closest relay host.
.PP
If \*LGateIV\*O is set to a fully qualified host name, then \*LTransIV\*O
is used to forward the mail to that host, unless \*LGateIV\*O is set to the
same hostname.  In this case the \*Lmail11\*O mailer is called directly.
.PP
This lets you share a \*Lsendmail.cf\*O file across all of your workstations
and \*Lmail11\*O gateway machines, because the mail will go to the designated
\*Lmail11\*O gateway first, which, on forwarding, the mail will recognize
its own name as the designated gateway and instead call the \*Lmail11\*O
transport.
.PP
It is recommended that you set \*LTransIV\*O to \*Lsmtpr\*O, if the
\*LGateIV\*O host has aliases for
all of your users.  This enables outbound DECnet addresses to omit the local
host name.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_PhaseIVdomain\*O, {\*Vpsuedodomain\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro applies to DECnet only.
.PP
Mail from a DECnet node is always encapsulated in a pseudodomain.  The
DECnet pseudodomain is an arbitrary string that should be used
uniformly by your site or organization.  The DECnet pseudodomain must
always appear after the parent domain. For example, in the following
domain name, \*LQNET\*O is the DECnet pseudodomain portion of the domain names:
.oS
NODEONE.QNET.ECD.COM
.sp
NODETWO.QNET.ECD.COM
.oE
.\" Idon't think we have to mention this.
.\"Specify your own
.\"domain unless you are directly connected to Digital Equipment Corporation's
.\"internal network.)
\*LPhaseIVdomain\*O is the non-qualified name of the
\*Lpseudodomain\*O.  It is always qualified with \*LParentDomain\*O before being
emitted into the Internet.
.PP
This can be anything you want but is usually the name of the DECnet
network.  Do not set this to \*LDNET\*O. Set it to the
proper name of your network, not the name of the
network's technology.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_Mail11path\*O, {\*L/usr/sbin/mail11v3\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro applies to DECnet only.
.PP
This macro specifies the location of the mail11 binary.
For this operating system it is located in \*L/usr/sbin/mail11v3\*O.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_ReversePhaseIV\*O, {})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro applies to DECnet only.
.PP
Unnamed DECnet nodes are reachable through the \*VAA.NNN\*O:: notation.
The \*VAA\*O in this is actually of higher precedence than the \*VNNN\*O.
You may want to reverse the order when rewriting into Internet form
because Internet addresses have higher precedence toward the right side.
Whatever you do you must do it consistently across all \*Lmail11\*O gateways
in your network, and you will probably not be able to change your mind
later.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_PhaseVns\*O, {})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro applies to DECnet only.
.PP
This macro applies to DECnet Phase V only.  It specifies the
namespace that \*Lsendmail\*O assumes for any mail
it receives in without a namespace, if you are running DECnet Phase V.
It is recommended that you make it the name of the namespace you are in.
If you are running DECnet Phase IV, you must get the name of the
namespace from your network administrator.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_TransV\*O, {\*Vtransport\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.nL
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_GateV\*O, {\*Vgateway\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.nL
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_PhaseVdomain\*O, {\*Vpseudodomain\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
These macros apply to DECnet Phase V only.  They specify the transport,
gateway, and psuedodomain for DECnet Phase V mail.
.PP
Note that Phase V names are always reversed so there is no
\*LReversePhaseV\*O variable.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_UMC\*O, {})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro enable your system to MR or UMC addresses.
If you do not define \*LGateMsgRout\*O you must run
UMC on your host.  Most hosts use a gateway to reach MR.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_TransMR\*O, {\*Vtransport\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.nL
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_GateMR\*O, {\*Vgateway\*O.}\*L_MyDomain\*O)\*Ldnl\*O
.nL
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_MsgRoutDomain\*O, {\*Vpseudodomain\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro applies to DEC MessageRouter (\*Lmail-plus\*O) only.
They define the transport, gateway, and psuedodomain.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_GateMsgRoutCl\*O, {\*Vlist\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro applies to the DEC MessageRouter (\*Lmail-plus\*O) only.
It specifies other pseudodomains that the software or your users may
use, expecting them to be recognized as Message Router
pseudodomains.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_IDA\*O, {\*LT\*O})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
Use this macro if you have an IDA version of \*Lsendmail\*O.  This turns
on split rewrite rules (O/).  It also allows for local aliases lookup.
If you are using
DEC OSF/1's
\*Lsendmail\*O utility, it is recommended that you set this parameter to be
\*LT\*O.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_AliasesLocal\*O, {\*LT})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro specifies that aliases in your local aliases file are
\*L_NonHiddenUsers\*O.  You must have \*L_IDA\*O defined because
it uses IDA features to do the aliases lookup.
See the explanation of \*O_NonHiddenUsers\*O and \*L_IDA\*O.
.rE
.sS
.sp
\*Ldefine\*O(\*L_RelayAll\*O, {})\*Ldnl\*O
.sp
.sE
.rS
This macro specifies to bypass most of the other routing options
(for example, \*LGateDomain\*O)
and forces almost your mail to be sent by \*L_TransINET\*O
to your \*L_GateINET\*O machine.  This allows workstations with simple
mail configurations to create mail locally, but have it appear as if it
came from the main relay (\*LGateINET\*O) machine.  Using this option can
simplify things for the system administrator, by funneling
all mail through central, well-maintained machines.
.PP
The only mail that is delivered locally (to the simple
workstation) is the mail addressed to the user names contained
in \*L_NonHiddenUsers\*O.
.rE
.EQ
delim off
.EN
