.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: setld.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/20 22:14:07 $
.\" 
.TH setld 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsetld\*O \- software subset management utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/setld\*O
[ \*L\-D\*O \*Vroot-path\*O ]
\*L\-l\*O \*Vlocation\*O
[ \*Vsubset...\*O ]
.sp
.\"
\*L/usr/sbin/setld\*O
[ \*L\-D\*O \*Vroot-path\*O ]
\*L\-d\*O \*Vsubset...\*O
.br
\*L/usr/sbin/setld
[ \*L\-D\*O \*Vroot-path\*O ]
\*L\-i\*O [ \*Vsubset...\*O ]
.br
\*L/usr/sbin/setld\*O
[ \*L\-D\*O \*Vroot-path\*O ]
\*L\-v\*O \*Vsubset...\*O
.br
\*L/usr/sbin/setld\*O
[ \*L\-D\*O \*Vroot-path\*O ]
\*L\-c\*O \*Vsubset\*O \*Vmessage\*O
.sp
\*L/usr/sbin/setld\*O
[ \*L\-D\*O \*Vroot-path\*O ]
\*L\-x\*O \*Vlocation\*O
[ \*Vsubset...\*O ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "setld utility"
.iX "software subsets" "installing and managing"
.iX "installing software subsets"
The
\*Lsetld\*O
command is used for installing and managing software.  Software
products are organized into
\*Vsubsets\*O
which may be loaded, deleted, inventoried, updated, verified and
configured.
The load and update operations read software from disk, tape, or an
Internet installation server.
.PP
The
\*Lsetld\*O
command is also used to read the contents of an installation tape onto
a disk so that the disk can be used as the distribution media.
.PP
The
\*Vlocation\*O
argument specifies the location of the distribution.
This location can be the name of a directory, a device special file
name, or the name of a remote installation server.
The specified
\*Vlocation\*O
determines the type of media to be used.  Valid location specifiers
include the following:
.TP 16
\*L/dev/rmt0h\*O
Magnetic tape on tape unit 0
.TP 16
\*L/mnt/ALPHA/BASE\*O
Disk distribution in the
\*L/mnt/ALPHA/BASE\*O
directory
.TP 15
\*Vhostname\*O:
Remote distribution from server
\*Vhostname\*O
.PP
The
\*Vsubset\*O
argument specifies the name of a subset on which an operation is to be
performed.  Subset names are strings of seven or more characters used
to uniquely identify subsets, for example,
\*LOSFXMAIL100\*O.
.PP
The
\*Vmessage\*O
argument specifies a string to be sent to the subset control program
for
\*Vsubset\*O,
to configure the subset.
.SH FUNCTION KEYS
.PP
.TP
.B \-l
Loads software from distribution mounted on
\*Vlocation\*O.
If no
\*Vsubset\*O
is specified, a menu of optional subsets available on the distribution is
presented.  Mandatory subsets found on the distribution are listed but
not offered for selection.  Any subset or subsets chosen from the menu
are then loaded on the system.  If a
\*Vsubset\*O
is specified, only that subset is loaded.
.TP
.B \-d
Deletes each
\*Vsubset\*O
from the system.  All files in each subset which have not been modified
since installation are removed.
.IP
Subsets can be marked during manufacture so that they cannot be
deleted.   Any attempt to delete such subsets will generate an
appropriate diagnostic message.
.IP
If a subset being deleted is required by other subsets installed
on the system, those other subsets are listed and the user is asked to
confirm that the target subset is to be deleted.
.TP
.B \-i
Inventories the system or any specified subset.  If no
\*Vsubset\*O
is specified, the state of the system is listed on standard output in
three columns.  The first column gives the subset name.  The second
column lists the status of that subset:
\*Linstalled\*O
if the subset is currently installed,
\*Lcorrupt\*O
if the subset failed to install correctly,
\*Lincomplete\*O
if information in the subset control file is incomplete, or blank if
the subset is not installed.  The third column presents the textual
description for that subset.
.IP
If
\*Vsubset\*O
arguments are present, the names of the files making up the contents of
each named subset are listed.  Named subsets do not need to be
currently installed for this option to display their contents.
.TP
.B \-v
Verifies each
\*Vsubset\*O.
The existence of the subset is checked.  Then, if the subset is
provided with an installation verification program (IVP), the IVP is
executed.
.TP
.B \-c
Configures one
\*Vsubset\*O,
passing the configuration message
\*Vmessage\*O
to the subset control program.
.TP
.B \-x
Extracts subsets from the distribution media mounted on
\*Vlocation.\*O
If you specify no
\*Vsubset\*O
arguments,
\*Lsetld\*O
displays a menu of subsets on the distribution.   Subsets chosen from
this menu are extracted.
.IP ""
If you specify
\*Vsubset\*O
arguments,
\*Lsetld\*O
extracts only the subsets specified.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.TP
.BI "\-D " root-path
Specify
\*Vroot-path\*O
as the root directory for an operation.  The default root directory is
.B /
for all operations except
.BR \-x .
The default for
.B \-x
is the current directory.  If this option is specified,
\*Lsetld\*O
operates on the software rooted at the specified directory.  This
option is useful for installing software to offline systems on
removable media or dual-ported disk drives.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Do not attempt to install software into an NFS-mounted file system.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Load software subsets from tape unit 2:
.PP
#
.B "setld \-l /dev/rmt2h"
.PP
Load the
\*LOSFXMAIL100\*O
subset from tape unit 2:
.PP
#
.B "setld \-l /dev/rmt2h OSFXMAIL100"
.PP
Load the
\*LOSFXMAIL100\*O
subset to an offline system rooted at
\*L/mnt\*O
from tape unit 2:
.PP
#
.B "setld \-D /mnt \-l /dev/rmt2h OSFXMAIL100"
.PP
Load the
\*LOSFXMAIL100\*O
subset to an offline system rooted at
\*L/mnt\*O
from installation server
\*Lmumbly\*O:
.PP
#
.B "setld \-D /mnt \-l mumbly: OSFXMAIL100"
.PP
Load the
\*LOSFXMAIL100\*O
subset to an offline system rooted at
\*L/mnt\*O
from a disk distribution in
\*L/mnt2/ALPHA/BASE\*O:
.PP
#
.B "setld \-D /mnt \-l /mnt2/ALPHA/BASE OSFNFS100"
.PP
Delete the
\*LOSFXMAIL100\*O
and
\*LOSFSYSV100
subsets:
.PP
#
.B "setld \-d OSFXMAIL100 OSFSYSV100"
.PP
Delete
\*LOSFXMAIL100\*O
and
\*LOSFSYSV100
subsets from the offline system
rooted at
\*L/mnt\*O:
.PP
#
.B "setld \-D /mnt \-d OSFXMAIL100 OSFSYSV100"
.PP
Display the status of all subsets known to the system:
.PP
%
.B "setld \-i"
.PP
Display the status of all subsets known to the offline system rooted
at
\*L/mnt\*O:
.PP
%
.B "setld \-D /mnt \-i"
.PP
Display the contents of the
\*LOSFXMAIL100\*O
subset:
.PP
%
.B "setld \-i OSFXMAIL100"
.PP
Verify the
\*LOSFCLINET100\*O
subset on the running system:
.PP
#
.B "setld \-v OSFCLINET100"
.PP
Send the configuration message
\*LREPORT
to the
\*LOSFXMIT100\*O
subset:
.PP
#
.B setld \-c OSFXMIT100 REPORT
.PP
Extract subsets from the distribution on tape unit 0 into the current
directory:
.PP
#
.B "setld \-x /dev/nrmt0h"
.PP
Extract subsets from the disk distribution in
\*L/mnt/ALPHA/UNSUPPORTED
into
\*L/usr/bigdisk\*O:
.PP
#
.B "setld \-D /usr/bigdisk \-x /mnt/ALPHA/UNSUPPORTED"
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The exit status from
\*Lsetld\*O
is 0 if the operation requested was performed successfully.  All other
cases yield exit status of 1 for failed operations on mandatory subsets
and greater than 1 for failed operations on optional subsets.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.IB "\-c " "can be used by super-user only"
.br
.RS 5
The
\*Lsetld\*O
command was entered by a non-root user with one of the root-only
function keys.  The only
\*Lsetld\*O
function nonprivileged users can use is
.BR \-i .
.RE
.PP
.B error in Args()
.br
.RS 5
This message is displayed if
\*Lsetld\*O
cannot understand the command line arguments.  It is always preceded by
a usage message or another diagnostic.
.RE
.PP
.BI "Temp directory /usr/tmp/stltmp" XXXXXX " already in use"
.br
.RS 5
This message is displayed if the temporary directory that
\*Lsetld\*O
would create for itself already exists.  Run
\*Lsetld\*O
again.
.RE
.PP
.BI "Cannot create directory " dir
.br
.RS 5
The directory
\*Vdir\*O
which is needed for
\*Lsetld\*O
to operate correctly could not be created.  This error can happen if
parts of the system are NFS-mounted but not root-mapped.
.RE
.PP
.B "error in Dirs()"
.br
.RS 5
This message always accompanies the preceding two messages.
.RE
.PP
.IB subset ": not currently installed, cannot configure."
.br
.RS 5
Occurs when
\*Vsubset\*O
is used as an argument to
.B \-c
but
\*Vsubset\*O
is not installed on the system.
.RE
.PP
.IB subset ": missing control program, cannot configure."
.br
.RS 5
An attempt is being made to
configure
\*Vsubset\*O
but the program responsible for performing the configuration is
missing.  Delete the subset and install it again before retrying the
operation.
.RE
.PP
.IB subset ": not currently installed, cannot delete"
.br
.RS 5
A
\*Vsubset\*O
specified as an argument with the
.B \-d
function key is not installed on the system.
.RE
.PP
.BI "ReadCtrlFile(): cannot find " filename .ctrl
.br
.RS 5
The control file named in the error message is not where it is expected
to be.
.RE
.PP
.BI "ReadCtrlFile(): cannot read " filename .ctrl
.br
.RS 5
The control file named in the error message exists but cannot be read.
.RE
.PP
.BI "ReadCtrlFile(): " filename .ctrl " is incomplete"
.br
.RS 5
Either the control file named in the error message is empty or it names
one or more attributes with no values specified.
.RE
.PP
.BI "setld: Sorry, You may not delete the " description " (" subset ") subset"
.br
.RS 5
The indicated
\*Vsubset\*O,
used as an argument with the
.B \-d
option, was marked during manufacture as a subset that cannot be
deleted.  In this case, the subset cannot be removed from the system by
\*Lsetld\*O.
.RE
.PP
.IB subset ": deletion declined by subset control program"
.br
.RS 5
The subset named in the error message cannot be deleted because its
subset control program has determined that the subset should not be
deleted.  Depending on the individual subset control program, this
message can also be seen with a diagnostic issued directly from the
subset control program.  Consult the documentation accompanying the
product.
.RE
.PP
.B "Installation declined by subset control program"
.br
.RS 5
.IB description " (" subset ") will not be loaded."
.br
The subset named in the error message cannot be installed because its
subset control program has determined that the subset should not be
loaded.  Depending on the individual subset control program, this
message can also be seen with a diagnostic issued directly from the
subset control program.  Consult the documentation accompanying the
product.
.RE
.PP
.B Tape Positioning Error
.br
.RS 5
An error was detected while positioning the tape for a read operation
while using
\*Lsetld\*O
with the
.BR \-l ,
.BR \-u ,
or
.B \-x
function key.  This can indicate a faulty tape or a transient tape
subsystem error.  Check the error log and try the operation again.
.RE
.PP
.BI "Error Extracting " subset
.br
.RS 5
An unrecoverable error has occurred when trying to extract a subset
from the distribution.
.RE
.PP
.BI "Control Info Error on " subset
.br
.RS 5
An attempt to access a control or inventory file or subset control
program has failed while extracting subsets.  This error can indicate a
faulty distribution.  Try the operation again.
.RE
.PP
.IB subset ": extract checksum error"
.br
.RS 5
A checksum error was detected in the extracted copy of
\*Vsubset\*O.
This error can indicate a transient tape subsystem error.  Check the
error log and retry the operation.
.RE
.PP
.BI "Error contacting server " hostname ": " error-message
.br
.RS 5
An attempt to contact installation server
\*Vhostname\*O
failed.  The error message provides more information.
.RE
.PP
.BI "Device " location " not supported for installations."
.br
.RS 5
The
\*Vlocation\*O
specified on the command line was not recognized as a valid input
location for a
.BR \-l ,
.BR \-u ,
or
.B \-x
operation.
.RE
.PP
.BI "Cannot access /dev/nrmt" n h
.br
.RS 5
The named device special file either does not exist or is not a
character special file.  Remake the file with
\*LMAKEDEV\*O(8)
and try the operation again.
.RE
.PP
.IB subset ": Unknown subset"
.br
.RS 5
A
\*Vsubset\*O
argument that was specified with the
.B \-i
function key does not correspond to any subset known to the system.
Check the command line for spelling errors.
.RE
.PP
.IB location "/instctrl: no such file or directory"
.br
.RS 5
The disk distribution
\*Vlocation\*O
specified on the command line does not point to a valid directory.
Check the command line for spelling errors.
.RE
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 28
\*L/var/adm/smlogs/setld.log\*O
Logfile for
\*Lsetld\*O
transactions
.PP
The following files are relative to root-path:
.TP 28
\*Lusr/.smdb./*.inv\*O
Subset inventory files
.PD 0
.TP 28
\*Lusr/.smdb./*.ctrl\*O
Subset control files
.TP 28
\*Lusr/.smdb./*.scp\*O
Subset control programs
.TP 28
\*Lusr/.smdb./*.lk\*O
Subset installed lock files
.TP 28
\*Lusr/.smdb./*.dw\*O
Subset corrupt lock files
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:
\*Lkits\*O(1),
\*Lfitset\*O(8),
\*Lfverify\*O(8)
.PP
File formats:
\*Lstl_comp\*O(4),
\*Lstl_ctrl\*O(4),
\*Lstl_image\*O(4),
\*Lstl_inv\*O(4),
\*Lstl_scp\*O(4)
.PP
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
