.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: shmx.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 14:56:47 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)shmx.8 8.1 9/11/90
.TH shmx 8
.SH NAME
shmx \- shared memory exerciser
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /usr/field/shmx
[
.B \-h
] [
.BI \-o file
.B ] [
.BI \-t time
.B ] [
.BI \-m size
.B ] [
.BI \-s segment
.B ] [
.BI \-v
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "shared memory" "exercising"
The \f3shmx\fP
memory exerciser spawns the background process \f3shmxb,\fP
and these two processes exercise the shared memory
segments. They alternate writing and reading the other process'
data in the segments.
.PP
.iX "shmx exerciser"
You can specify the number of memory segments to test
and the size of the segment to be tested by \f3shmx\fP
and \f3shmxb\fP processes. The \f3shmx\fP exerciser
runs until the process is killed.
.PP
A log file is created in the \f3/usr/field\fP
directory for you to examine and then remove.  If there are errors
in the logfile, check the \f3syslog\fP
files where the driver and kernel error messages are saved.
The \f3shmx\fP
exerciser is automatically invoked when the \f3memx\fP
exerciser is started.  You can also invoke \f3shmx\fP
manually.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
You can use the following options:
.IP \f3\-h\f1 10
Prints the help message for the \f3shmx\fP
command.
.IP \f3\-v\f1
Uses the \f3fork(2)\fP
system call instead of the \f3vfork(2)\fP
call to spawn \f3shmxb.\fP
.IP \f3\-o\f2file\f1
Saves diagnostic output in \f2file\f1.
.IP \f3\-t\f2time\f1
Specifies the run time in minutes.  The default is to run until
the process is killed.
.IP \f3\-m\f2size\f1
Specifies the memory segment size in bytes to be tested by the
processes.  Must be greater than 0.  The default is
SHMMAX/SHMSEG.  (SHMMAX and SHMSEG are system parameters set in the
\f3/sys/include/sys/param.h\fP file.)
.IP \f3\-s\f2n\f1
Specifies the number of memory segments.  The default and maximum
number is 3.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
If you need to run a system exerciser over an NFS
link or on a diskless system, there are some restrictions.
For exercisers that need to write into a file system, such as \f3fsx(8),\fP
the target file system must be writable by root.  Also the
directory from which the exercisers are executed must
be writable by root because temporary
files are written into the current directory.  These latter
restrictions are sometimes difficult to overcome because often
NFS file systems are mounted in a way that prevents root from
writing into them.  Some of the restrictions may be
overcome by copying the exerciser to another directory and then
executing it.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example tests the default number of memory segments (3),
each with the default segment size (SHMMAX/SHMSEG):
.oS
% /usr/field/shmx &
.oE
The following example runs two memory segments of size 100,000
bytes for 180 minutes:
.oS
% /usr/field/shmx \-t180 \-m100000 \-s2 &
.oE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
cmx(8), fsx(8), memx(8), tapex(8), diskx(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
