.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: showfdmn.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/21 19:58:02 $
.\"
.TH showfdmn 8
.PP
.\"
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lshowfdmn\*O \- displays file domain attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "showfdmn command"
.\"
.sS
\*L/sbin/showfdmn\*O
[\*L-k\*O]
\*Vdomain\*O
.\"
.sE
.\"
.sp 8p
.\"
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vdomain\*O"
Specifies the name of an existing domain.
.LE
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-k\*O"
Displays the total number of blocks and the number of free blocks in
terms of 1K blocks instead of the default 512-byte blocks.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "File-domain ID"
.iX "Log page" "displaying size"
.iX "File domain" "displaying information about"
.iX "Displaying" "file domain information"
.iX "Displaying" "list of volumes"
The \*Lshowfdmn\*O command displays the attributes of a file domain and
detailed information about each volume in the file domain.
.PP
The command displays the following file-domain attributes:
.ML
.LI
\*LId\*O
.sp \n()Pu
A unique number (in hexadecimal format) that identifies a file domain.
.LI
\*LDate Created\*O
.sp \n()Pu
The day, month, and time that a file domain was created.
.LI
\*LLogPgs\*O
.sp \n()Pu
The number of 8-kilobyte pages in the transaction log of the specified file
domain.
.LI
\*LDomain Name\*O
.sp \n()Pu
The name of the file domain.
.LE
.PP
The command also displays the following volume information:
.ML
.LI
\*LVol\*O
.nL
The volume number within the file domain. An \*LL\*O next to the
number indicates that the volume contains the transaction log.
.LI
\*L512-Blks\*O
.nL
The size of the volume in 512-byte blocks.
.LI
\*L1K-Blks\*O
.nL
The size of the volume in 1K blocks.
.LI
\*LFree\*O
.nL
The number of blocks in a volume that are available for use.
.LI
\*L% Used\*O
.nL
The percent of volume space that is currently allocated to files or metadata.
.LI
\*LCmode\*O
.nL
The I/O consolidation mode.  The default mode is \*Lon\*O.
.LI
\*LRblks\*O
.nL
The maximum number of 512-byte blocks read from the volume at one time.
.LI
\*LWblks\*O
.nL
The maximum number of 512-byte blocks written to the volume at one time.
.LI
\*LVol Name\*O
.nL
The name of the special device file for the volume.
.LE
.PP
.iX "Volume" "displaying information about"
.iX "Displaying" "volume information"
.PP
For multi-volume file domains, the \*Lshowfdmn\*O command also displays the
total volume size, total number of free blocks, and the total percent of
volume space currently allocated. Note that in order to create
multi-volume file domains, you must purchase the
POLYCENTER Advanced File System Utilities layered product.
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
A file domain must be active before the \*Lshowfdmn\*O command can display
volume information.  A file domain is active when at least one fileset in the
file domain is mounted.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example displays domain information for the \*L/usr\*O file
domain:
.oS

% showfdmn usr

                 Id              Date Created  LogPgs  Domain Name
  2b5361ba.000791be  Tue Jan 12 16:26:34 1993     256  usr

  Vol   512-Blks        Free  % Used  Cmode  Rblks  Wblks  Vol Name
   1L     820164      351580     57%     on    256    256  /dev/rz0d
.oE
.PP
To display information on all file domains on a system, enter the following
sequence of commands:
.oS

% cd /etc/fdmns
% showfdmns *
.oE
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:
.\" \*Ldefgh_refpg\*O(1), etc
.\" \*Lchfset\*O(8), 
.\" 
.\" 
.\" \*Lclonefset\*O(8), 
.\"\*Ldefrag\*O(8),
.\"
.\"
.\" \*Lmigrate\*O(8),
.\"
.\" \*Lmkfdmn\*O(8),
.\"
.\" \*Lmkfset\*O(8),
.\"
\*Ladvfs\*O(4),
\*Lchvol\*O(8),
\*Lmkfdmn\*O(8).
.\"
.\" \*Lrmfset\*O(8),
.\"\*Lshowbitmap\*O(8),
.\"
.\" \*Lshowfdmn\*O(8),
.\"
.\" \*Lshowfsets\*O(8),
.\"
.\" \*Lshowxtnts\*O(8)
.\"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
