.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: showmount.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/09 18:11:00 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
.\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail 
.\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1989 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Rick Macklem at The University of Guelph.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)showmount.8	6.2 (Berkeley) 6/24/90
.\" 
.TH showmount 8
.SH NAME
\*Lshowmount\*O \- Shows remote NFS compatible mounts on a host
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lshowmount\*O [\*L-ade\*O] [\*Vhost\*O]
.sE 
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L\-a\*O"
Lists all mount points in the form: \*Vhostname\*O:\*Vdirpath\*O. In
this form, \*Vhostname\*O is the name of a client that has remotely 
mounted a directory from an NFS server,
and \*Vdirpath\*O is the directory that has been mounted.
.LI "\*L\-d\*O"
Lists only directories that have been remotely mounted by clients.
.LI "\*L\-e\*O"
Shows \*Vhost\*O's exports list.
.LE 
.PP
The default value for \*Vhost\*O is the current hostname.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "showmount"
.iX "NFS"
.iX "mount"
The \*Lshowmount\*O command shows status information about the NFS server on
\*Vhost.\*O By default it prints the names of all hosts that have NFS file
systems mounted from the server host.  See \*VNFS: Network File System Protocol 
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Corrected 'description' per QAR 6104.
Specification, RFC1094, Appendix A\*O for a detailed description of the protocol.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.SH CAUTIONS
The \*Lmountd\*O daemon running on the server only has
an idea of the actual mounts,
since the NFS server is stateless. \*Lshowmount\*O
will only display the information
as accurately as the \*Lmount\*O daemon reports it.
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/bin/showmount\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\" changed mount.1 to mount.8
Commands: \*Lmount\*O(8)
.\"End Digital correction.
.PP 
Daemons: \*Lmountd\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
