.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: showfsets.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.8 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 22:08:19 $
.\"
.TH showfsets 8
.PP
.\"
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lshowfsets\*O \- displays information about the filesets in a file domain
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "showfsets command"
.\"
.sS
\*L/sbin/showfsets\*O
[\*L\-b\*O]
[\*L\-k\*O]
\*Vdomain\*O
.\"
.sE
.\"
.sp 8p
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vdomain\*O"
Specifies the full path name of the file domain.
.LE
.SH FLAG
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*L\-b\*O"
Lists the names of the filesets in a domain, without additional detail.
.LI "\*L\-k\*O"
Displays the total number of blocks and the number of free blocks in terms of 1K
blocks instead of the default 512-byte blocks.
.iX "Displaying" "fileset information"
.iX "Fileset" "listing names"
.iX "Fileset" "displaying information about"
.iX "File domain" "displaying information about"
.LE
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lshowfsets\*O command displays the filesets (or clone filesets) and their
characteristics in a specified domain.  The characteristics of a fileset are:
.ML
.LI
Fileset Identifier
.sp \n()Pu
A fileset identifier is a combination of the
file-domain identifier and an additional set of numbers that identify the
fileset within the file domain.  For example, the fileset identifier
\*L2be95ef4.000a129.1.8001\*O consists of the following:
.VL 14m
.LI "File-domain identifier"
\*L2be95ef4.000a129\*O
.LI "Fileset-specific numbers"
\*L1.8001\*O
.LE
.LI
Clone status
.sp \n()Pu
The status items of a clone fileset vary, depending on the fileset.  Status
items can include:
.RS
.IP \- 2
\*LClone is\*O
.nL
Specifies the name of a clone fileset, if one exists for the parent fileset.
.IP \- 2
\*LClone of\*O
.nL
Specifies the name of the parent fileset, if the displayed fileset is clone
fileset.
.IP \- 2
\*LRevision\*O
.nL
Specifies the number of times you revised a clone fileset.
For example, if you recreate a clone fileset of the same parent fileset three
times, the \*Lrevision\*O value is \*L3\*O.
.RE
.LI
Files
.sp \n()Pu
Specifies the number of files in the fileset and the current file usage limit (quota).
.LI
Blocks
.sp \n()Pu
Specifies the number of blocks that are in use by a mounted fileset and the current block
usage limit (quota). For filesets that are not mounted, zero blocks will
display. For an accurate display, the fileset must be mounted.
.LI
Quota Status
.sp \n()Pu
Specifies which quota types are enabled (enforced).
.LE
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
You must have root-user privilege to access this command if the file domain
is inactive (filesets unmounted).
.\"
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
The following example shows the command line and resulting display for the
\*Lshowfsets\*O command.
.\"
.PP
.oS
\*C#\*O \*Lshowfsets dmn\*C

	mnt
       		Id           : 2c73e2f9.000f143a.1.8001
		Clone is     : mnt_clone
		Files        :       79,  limit =     1000
		Blocks  (1k) :      331,  limit =    25000
		Quota Status : user=on  group=on

	mnt_clone
		Id           : 2c73e2f9.000f143a.2.8001
		Clone of     : mnt
		Revision     : 1

.oE

.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:
\*Ladvfs\*O(4),
\*Lchfsets\*O(8),
.\" \*Ldefgh_refpg\*O(1), etc
.\" 
.\" \*Lchfdmn\*O(8msfd), 
.\"
.\" \*Lclonefset\*O(8), 
.\" \*Ldefrag\*O(8),
.\"
.\" \*Lnewfdmn\*O(8),
.\"
.\" \*Lmigrate\*O(8),
.\"
.\" \*Lmkfdmn\*O(8),
.\"
\*Lmkfset\*O(8),
.\"
.\" \*Ladvfs\*O(4),
.\"
\*Lrmfset\*O(8).
.\"\*Lshowbitmap\*O(8),
.\"
.\" \*Lshowfdmn\*O(8),
.\"
.\" \*Lshowfset\*O(8),
.\"
.\" \*Lshowxtnts\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
