.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: showfile.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/21 20:11:49 $
.\"
.TH showfile 8
.PP
.\"
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lshowfile\*O \- displays the attributes of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "showfile command"
.\"
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/showfile\*O [\*L\-x\*O] \*Vfilename \&.\&.\&.\*O
.\"
.sE
.\"
.PP
.\"
.SH FLAG
.PP
.VL 2m
.LI "\*L\-x\"
.iX "Displaying" "storage allocation map"
.iX "-: Extent map" "Storage allocation map"
.iX "Extent map"
Displays the full storage allocation map (extent map) for files in an
Advanced File System.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "File extent"
.iX "Displaying" "file attributes"
.iX "-: File attributes" "Attributes"
.iX "File attributes" "displaying"
.iX "Page offset" "displaying"
.iX "File location, displaying"
.iX "Volume index" "displaying"
.iX "File type"
.PP
The
\*Cshowfile\*O
command displays the attributes of one or more Advanced File System (AdvFS)
files.  The command also displays the extent map of each file.  An extent is a
contiguous area of disk space that the file system allocates to a file.  Simple
files have one extent map; striped files have an extent map for every stripe
segment.
.PP
You can list AdvFS attributes for an individual file or the contents of a
directory.  Although the \*Lshowfile\*O command lists both AdvFS and
non-AdvFS files, the command displays meaningful information for
AdvFS files only.
.PP
The \*Lshowfile\*O command displays the following file attributes:
.ML
.LI
\*LId\*O
.nL
The unique number (in hexadecimal format) that identifies the file. Digits to
the left of the dot (\*L.\*O) character are equivalent to a UFS inode.
.LI
\*LVol\*O
.nL
The location of primary metadata for the file, expressed as a number. The data
extents of the file can reside on another volume.
.LI
\*LPgSz\*O
.nL
The page size in 512-byte blocks.
.LI
\*LPages\*O
.nL
The number of pages allocated to the file.
.LI
\*LXtntType\*O
.nL
The extent type can be \*Lsimple\*O, which is a regular AdvFS file without
special extents; \*Lstripe\*O, which is a striped file; \*Lsymlink\*O, which is
a symbolic link to a file; \*Lusf\*O,\*Lnfs\*O, and so on.
.sp \n()Pu
The \*Lshowfile\*O command cannot display attributes for symbolic links or
non-AdvFS files.
.LI
\*LSegs\*O
.nL
The number of stripe segments per striped file, which is the number of volumes
a striped file crosses. (Applies only to \*Lstripe\*O type.)
.LI
\*LSegSz\*O
.nL
The number of pages per stripe segment. (Applies only to \*Lstripe\*O type.)
.LI
\*LLog\*O
.nL
The data logging option is \*Lon\*O or \*Loff\*O.
.LI
\*LPerf\*O
.nL
The efficiency of file-extent allocation, expressed as a percentage of
the optimal extent layout.  A high percentage, such as 100%, indicates that the
AdvFS I/O system has achieved optimal efficiency.  A low percentage indicates
the need for file defragmentation.
.LE
.PP
Whereas a simple file has one extent map, a striped file has more than one
extent map.  An extent map (numbered \*LextentMap:1\*O, \*LextentMap:2\*O,
and so on) displays the following information:
.ML
.LI
\*LpageOff\*O
.nL
The starting page number of the extent.
.LI
\*LpageCnt\*O
.nL
The number of pages in the extent.
.LI
\*Lvol\*O
.nL
The location of the extent, expressed as a number.
.LI
\*LvolBlock\*O
.nL
The starting block number of the extent.
.LI
\*LblockCnt\*
.nL
The number of blocks in the extent.
.LI
\*LextentCnt\*O
.nL
The number of extents.
.LE
.PP
Note that in order to create striped files or to enable file data logging,
you must purchase the POLYCENTER Advanced File System
Utilities layered product.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
The following example displays the AdvFS-specific attributes for all the
files in the current working directory:
.oS

# showfile *

      Id  Vol  PgSz  Pages   XtntType  Segs  SegSz  Log  Perf  File
 22a.001    1    16      1     simple    **     **  off   50%  Mail
   7.001    1    16      1     simple    **     **  off   20%  bin
 1d8.001    1    16      1     simple    **     **  off   33%  c
1bff.001    1    16      1     simple    **     **  off   82%  dxMail
 218.001    1    16      1     simple    **     **  off   26%  emacs
 1ed.001    1    16      0     simple    **     **  off  100%  foo
 1ee.001    1    16      1     simple    **     **  off   77%  lib
 1c8.001    1    16      1     simple    **     **  off   94%  obj
 23f.003    1    16      1     simple    **     **  off  100%  sb
170a.008    1    16      2     simple    **     **  off   35%  t
   6.001    1    16     12     simple    **     **  off   16%  tmp
.oE
The following example shows the attributes and extent information for the
\*Lmail\*O file, which is a simple file:
.oS

# showfile -x mail

       Id  Vol  PgSz  Pages  XtntType  Segs  SegSz  Log  Perf  File
4198.800d    2    16     27    simple    **     **  off   66%  tutorial

    extentMap: 1
        pageOff    pageCnt    vol    volBlock    blockCnt
              0          5      2      781552          80
              5         12      2      785776         192
             17         10      2      786800         160
        extentCnt: 3
.oE
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.iX "showfile command" "related information"
.PP
.\" COMMANDS:
.\" \*Ldefgh_refpg\*O(1), etc
.\" \*Lchfset\*O(8), 
.\" \*Lchfdmn\*O(8), 
.\" \*Lclonefset\*O(8), 
.\" \*Ldefrag\*O(8),
.\"\*Lnewfdmn\*O(8),
.\"
.\" \*Lmigrate\*O(8),
.\"\*Lmkfdmn\*O(8),
.\"\*Lmkfset\*O(8),
.\"\*Ladvfs\*O(4),
.\"\*Lrmfset\*O(8),
.\"\*Lshowbitmap\*O(8),
.\"\*Lshowfdmn\*O(8),
.\"\*Lshowfsets\*O(8),
.\"\*Lshowfile\*O(8),
.\"
\*Ladvfs\*O(4).
.\"\*Lstripe\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
