.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: shutdown.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:52:00 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)shutdown.8	6.7 (Berkeley) 6/24/90
.\" 
.TH shutdown 8
.SH NAME
\*Lshutdown\*O \- Ends system operation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/shutdown\*O [\*L-bfhknr\*O] \*Vtime\*O [\*Vwarning-message\*O \&...]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "shutdown command"
.iX "shutting down the system"
.iX "system" "shutting down"
.iX "system" "multiuser mode"
.iX "multiuser mode" "bringing the system to"
The \*Lshutdown\*O command provides an automated shutdown procedure.
You must
be root
to use this command.
.PP
The \*Vtime\*O argument
specifies when \*Vshutdown\*O will bring the system down.  You can use
the word \*Lnow\*O (indicating an immediate shutdown) or
specify a future time in one of two formats: \*L+\*Vnumber\*O or
\*Vhhmm\*O.  The first form brings the system down in \*Vnumber\*O minutes.
The second form brings the system down at the hours and minutes specified.
The hours and minutes in the second time format may be separated by
a colon (:) for backward compatibility.
.PP
Any other arguments comprise the warning message that is broadcast
to users currently logged into the system.
Prior to shutdown, warning messages are displayed
at the terminals of all users on the system.
Messages are sent at intervals which get closer together as shutdown approaches.
Five minutes before
shutdown (or immediately, if shutdown is in less than five minutes)
logins are disabled by creating the \*Lnologin\*O file and copying the
warning message there.  If this file exists when a user attempts to
log in, the
\*Llogin\*O
program prints its contents and exits.  The
\*Lnologin\*O
file is
removed just before \*Lshutdown\*O exits.
.PP
At shutdown time a message is written in the system log, containing the
time of shutdown, who ran shutdown and the reason.  A terminate
signal is then sent to \*Linit\*O to bring the system down to the single-user state.
Alternatively, if you invoke
\*Lshutdown\*O
with the
\*L\-r\*O,
\*L\-h\*O,
or
\*L\-k\*O
flag,
the command executes the
\*Lreboot\*O
command or the
\*Lhalt\*O
command,
or avoids shutting the system down.
.PP
If you invoke the command with the
\*L\-f\*O
flag,
\*Lshutdown\*O
shuts down the system quickly (in the manner of the
\*Lfastboot\*O
or the
\*Lfasthalt\*O
program); the system halts or reboots without checking the file systems.
For example, the
\*Lshutdown -f\*O \*Vtime\*O
command brings the system to single user and creates the
\*L/fastboot\*O
file; when the system reboots to multiuser, it does not invoke
\*Lfsck.  The\*O
\*Lshutdown -f -r\*O \*Vtime\*O
command causes the system to shut down, create the
\*L/fastboot\*O
file, then immediately reboot.  The
\*Lshutdown -f -h \*Vtime\*O command causes the system to halt and
create the
\*L/fastboot\*O
file.
.PP
The
\*L\-n\*O
flag prevents the normal syncing of disks before stopping the system.
The
\*L\-n\*O
and
\*L\-f\*O
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Corrected 'incompatible' per QAR 6104.
flags together on the command line are incompatible.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP
The time of the shutdown and the warning message
are placed in the \*Lnologin\*O file and can be used to
inform the users about when the system will be back up
and why it is going down.
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L\-b\*O"
Sends a shutdown message to the \*Lrwalld\*O daemon on all remote client hosts
that have NFS file systems mounted from this system.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L\-f\*O"
Causes a fast shutdown, bypassing the messages to other users and
bringing the system down as quickly as possible.
.LI "\*L\-h\*O"
Causes the system to shutdown and halt.
.LI "\*L\-k\*O"
Causes shutdown messages to be sent to users, warning them of an
impending shutdown.  The system does not actually shut down.
.LI "\*L\-n\*O"
Causes a shutdown without syncing the disks.
.LI "\*L\-r\*O"
Causes the system to shutdown and automatically reboot.
.LE
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/shutdown\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Llogin\*O(1), \*Lwall\*O(1), \*Lfastboot\*O(8), \*Lfasthalt\*O(8),
\*Lhalt\*O(8), \*Lreboot\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
