.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: siainit.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.4.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:22:28 $
.\"
.\"	Created by Dave Suitor / John Williams for DEC OSF/1 SILVER
.\"
.TH siainit 8
.PP
.SH NAME
\*Lsiainit\*O \- SIA (Security Integration Architecture) initialization command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/siainit\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "initialization" "security"
.iX "SIA" "initialization"
.iX "security" "initialization"
The \*Lsiainit\*O
command is the SIA's initialization command and is executed only at
a reboot.
The
\*Lsiainit\*O
command informs the configured security mechanisms of a reboot and allows
each security mechanism to do its own reboot initialization.
.PP
The
\*Lsiainit\*O
command is not a general user level command and is intended
to execute only from the
\*L/sbin/rc3.d/S27sia\*O
startup script. If you use this command at times other than
reboot, the results are undetermined.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.VL 10m
.LI "\*LSuccessful SIA initialization\*O"
Indicates that SIA and the configured security mechanisms were
successfully initialized on the reboot.
.LI "\*LSIA initialization failure\*O"
Indicates that SIA or one of the security mechanisms is
improperly configured.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 10m
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/siainit\*O"
SIA initialization command
.LI "\*L/sbin/rc3.d/S27sia\*O"
Initialization script that executes \*Lsiainit\*O
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Files:
\*Lsialog\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
