.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sizer.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/21 14:15:24 $
.\"
.TH sizer 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsizer\*O \- A program that sizes system hardware
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/sizer\*O [ \*Vflags\*O ]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*L\-b\*O"
Returns the name of the file from which the running kernel was booted.
.LI "\*L\-c\*O"
Returns the CPU type of the running CPU.
.LI "\*L\-gt\*O"
Returns an ASCII string (terminated by a line feed) for each graphics
controller board present in the system.  Each string is a ROM ID
string, which identifies the type of graphics controller.
.LI "\*L\-k\*O \*Vimage\*O"
Uses the indicated kernel file instead of \*L/vmunix\*O.
This is useful when the running system is not
\*L/vmunix\*O or you want information about a
system that is not running.
.LI "\*L\-n\*O \*Vfilename\*O"
Creates a configuration file.  To do this, the system must be running the
\*L/vmunix\*O kernel unless the \*L\-k\*O option is used. The
\*L\-n\*O option creates a configuration file in \*L/tmp/\*Vfilename\*O
and also a file required for \*LMAKEDEV\*O called
\*L/tmp/\*Vfilename\*L.devs\*O.
.IP
NOTE: The user should run \*Ldoconfig\*O to build a new kernel.
.LI "\*L\-r\*O"
Returns the name of the root device.
.LI "\*L\-t\*O \*Vtimezone\*O"
Specifies a timezone string as defined in the
\*ESystem Administration\*O
for the \*Vtimezone\*O global definition. For example,
.IP
\*L\-t "5 dst 1"\*O
This timezone string
represents the timezone five hours west of Greenwich Mean Time
adjusted for daylight savings time.  This is United States
Eastern daylight savings time. The \*L\-t\*O option is used in conjunction with
the \*L\-n\*O option.
.LI "\*L\-wc\*O"
Returns the workstation console type.  This number indicates whether
a graphics head was chosen as the system console at boot time, or
whether the alternate (serial interface) console was chosen.  If
a graphics console was chosen, a zero (0) is returned to standard
output; if an alternate console was chosen, a one (1) is returned
to standard output.
.LI "\*L\-wt\*O"
Returns the workstation display type.  This number specifies each byte,
which indicates a type of display, with one byte used for each display.
The limit is zero to four displays.
.LI "\*L\-wu\*O"
Returns the workstation display units.  This number specifies the "on"
bits, which indicate the display units that are present.  For example,
the return number 1 indicates that one display exists, the return number
3 indicates that two displays exist, the return number 7 indicates that
three displays exist, and the return number 15 indicates that 4 displays
exist.  The limit is zero to four displays.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "sizer command"
.iX "system" "sizing"
The \*Lsizer\*O program reports information about a kernel file
and the running system. It is also used by the \*Ldoconfig\*O
program to create a system configuration file.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lconfig\*O(8), \*Ldoconfig\*O(8)
.br
\*ESystem Administration\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
