.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: slattach.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/01 14:13:59 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH slattach 8
.SH NAME
\*Lslattach\*O \- Attaches a serial line to a network interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
\*L/usr/sbin/slattach\*O [{\*L+\*O|\*L\-\*O} {\*Lc\*O|\*Le\*O|\*Li\*O}] \*Vttyname\*O [\*Vbaudrate\*O]
.\" End Digital-specific information
.sE
.\"Removed by BAC to eliminate redundancy. Cf. the NAME section and 
.\"the DESCRIPTION section for proof.
.\"The \*Lslattach\*O command assigns a tty line to a network interface.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "slattach"
.iX "assigning a tty line to a network interface"
.iX "attaching a serial line to a network interface"
.iX "tty line" "assigning to a network interface"
.iX "serial line" "attaching to a network interface"
.iX "network interface" "attaching a serial line to"
.iX "network interface" "assigning a tty line to"
.PP
The \*Lslattach\*O command assigns a tty line to a network interface, allowing
terminal devices to communicate across a network.  The \*Vttyname\*O argument
is the name of any valid tty device in \*L/dev\*O.  This can be either the full
path name (for example, \*L/dev/tty01\*O) or the name in \*L/dev\*O (for
example, tty01).  The optional \*Vbaudrate\*O argument is used to set the speed
of the connection.  The default speed is 9600 baud.
.PP
The tty line is attached to the first available network interface (sl0, sl1,
...).  Before issuing the \*Lslattach\*O command, the network interface must
already be configured with the local and remote addresses of each end of the
SLIP connection (see \*Lifconfig\*O(8)).
.PP
Only a person with superuser authority can attach a network interface.
.PP
To detach the interface, use the \*Lifconfig\*O \*Vinterface_id\*O
\*Ldown\*O command after terminating the \*Lslattach\*O process.
\*Vinterface_id\*O is the name that is shown by
the \*Lnetstat\*O command.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "{\*L+\*O|\*L-\*O}\*Lc\*O"
Enables (+) or disables (-\) TCP header compression.
.LI "{\*L+\*O|\*L-\*O}\*Le\*O"
Enables (+) or disables (-\) automatic TCP header compression. If enabled and
the remote system is using TCP header compression, TCP header compression is
automatically enabled on the local system.  If both local and remote systems
have enabled this flag, TCP header compression is not used. One system must
force the use of TCP header compression.
.LI "{\*L+\*O|\*L-\*O}\*Li\*O"
Enables (+) or disables (-\) ICMP traffic suppression. If enabled, ICMP traffic
(like that generated by \*Lping\*O(8)) is not allowed to pass over the SLIP
connection.
.LE
.PP
When the system is booted, all flags are initially disabled. Once a flag is
enabled, it remains enabled until the system is rebooted or until another
\*Lslattach\*O command is issued with the flag disabled.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH NOTES
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
The \*Lslattach\*O command requires the Serial Line Internet
Protocol (SLIP), which the kernel must support. If making a SLIP connection to
another DEC OSF/1 system, both systems must run \*Lslattach\*O. If
making a SLIP connection to a system not running the DEC OSF/1
operating system, the other system must support the SLIP protocol.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To attach a tty device to a network interface, enter:
.iS
/usr/sbin/slattach /dev/tty01 4800
.iE
This command attaches \*Ltty01\*O to a network interface to be used by the
Serial Line Internet Protocol (SLIP).  The connection speed is \*L4800\*O baud.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.PP
To attach a tty device to a network interface at 19200 bits per second (bps),
with TCP header compression enabled and ICMP traffic suppression disabled,
enter:
.iS
/usr/sbin/slattach +c -i /dev/tty01 19200
.iE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/slattach\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/var/run/tty\*Vxx\*L.pid\*O"
Contains the \*Lslattach\*O process ID
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lnetstat\*O(1), \*Lifconfig\*O(8)
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
Specifications: SLIP is described in RFC1055.  TCP header compression is
described in RFC1144.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.EQ
delim off
.EN
