.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: snmp_pe.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/13 13:42:30 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  SNMP_PE (8n) Manpage for POLYCENTER Common Agent
.\"
.\"  Use the following command to test this manpage:
.\"
.\"    tbl <filename> | nroff -man | col | more
.\"   
.TH snmp_pe 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsnmp_pe\*O \- Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) protocol engine component of the POLYCENTER Common Agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/snmp_pe\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "snm_ppe"
.iX "snmp daemon"
The \*Lsnmp_pe\*O process executes in conjunction with the other
Common Agent components to provide SNMP agent management functionality.
The other run-time Common Agent components consist of
the \*Lmold\*O process, the \*Lfddi_mom\*O process, the \*Ltrn_mom\*O
process, and the \*Linternet_mom\*O process.
.PP
The \*Lmold\*O process provides a registration
facility that relates managed object classes to the Managed Object
Modules (MOMs) that support the
classes, and also acts as a MOM lookup service for the Common Agent components.
The \*Lfddi_mom\*O process is the MOM component of the POLYCENTER Common
Agent that provides access to the FDDI MIB managed objects as defined by
\*VFDDI Management Information Base\*O (RFC 1285). The \*Ltrn_mom\*O process
is the MOM component of the POLYCENTER Common Agent that provides access to
managed objects as defined by \*VIEEE 802.5 Token Ring MIB\*O (RFC 1231).
The \*Linternet_mom\*O process is the MOM component of
the POLYCENTER Common Agent that provides access to the
Internet MIB-II objects as defined by
\*VManagement Information Base for
Network Management of TCP/IP-based Internets: MIB II\*O (RFC 1213).
.PP
The \*Lsnmp_pe\*O process is the Common Agent's SNMP protocol engine
that handles incoming SNMP management requests (on SNMP port 161) and
sends SNMP management responses.  When the \*Lsnmp_pe\*O process
receives an SNMP message from a Network Management Station, it performs
SNMP operations on the message and returns a valid response to the
Network Management Station.
.SS SNMP Trap Support
The following types of traps are supported by the Common Agent:
.ML
.LI
\*LcoldStart\*O
.LI
\*LwarmStart\*O
.LI
\*LauthenticationFailure\*O
.LI
\*LlinkUp\*O
.LI
\*LlinkDown\*O
.LI
\*LenterpriseSpecific\*O
.LE
.PP
The \*Lsnmp_pe\*O process sends traps to all
communities identified with the \*Lno_auth_traps\*O directive in the
\*Lsnmp_pe.conf\*O configuration file (see the FILES section).
For a complete description of Common Agent trap handling, see
\*Lsnmpsetup\*O(8).
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The \*LegpNeighborLoss\*O trap is not supported.
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L/etc/eca/snmp_pe.conf\*O"
The \*Lsnmp_pe.conf\*O
file is the default configuration file that contains information used by the
\*Lsnmp_pe\*O
process to define which communities are permitted to access the Common Agent
and which communities should receive traps that are generated by
the Common Agent.  In addition, the sending of \*LauthenticationFailure\*O
traps can be disabled by specifying the '\*Lno_auth_trap\*O' directive
in the \*Lsnmp_pe.conf\*O file.  See \*Lsnmpsetup\*O(8) for information
on how to intitially configure this file.
.\".IP
.\"The following are the
.\"\*Lsnmp_pe.conf\*O
.\"file directives and their significance:
.\".VL 4m
.\".LI "\*Lcommunity\*O \*Vname\*O \*VIP-address\*O \*Vaccess-mode\*O"
.\"The \*Lcommunity\*O
.\"directive describes an SNMP community for the agent.
.\".IP
.\"The \*Vname\*O parameter is a string that describes
.\"the name of the community.
.\".IP
.\"The \*VIP-address\*O parameter is the dot-notation Internet Protocol
.\"(IP) address for the server.  Only SNMP messages coming from that
.\"address are accepted.  If you specify 0.0.0.0 in the \*VIP-address\*O
.\"field, the \*Lsnmp_pe\*O process honors requests from any Network
.\"Management Station having the \*Vname\*O community.
.\".IP
.\"The \*Vaccess-mode\*O parameter can be one of the following:
.\".VL 6m
.\".LI "readonly"
.\"Permits monitoring of variables.
.\".LI "readwrite"
.\"Permits both monitoring and setting of variables.
.\".LI "writeonly"
.\"Permits setting of variables.
.\".LI "none"
.\"Does not permit access to any variables.
.\".LE
.\"If you do not specify any community, \*Lsnmp_pe\*O
.\"uses the default community \*Lpublic\*O
.\"with an address 0.0.0.0 and a read-only access mode.  To limit the use of a
.\"community to a finite group of machines, specify another
.\"community clause with the same community parameter \*Vname\*O and a
.\"different address.
.\".\"
.\".LI "\*Ltrap\*O \*Vname\*O \*VIP-address\*O"
.\"The \*Ltrap\*O
.\"directive describes an SNMP community where traps are sent to.
.\".IP
.\"The possible traps currently generated are
.\"cold start, warm start, and authentication failure.
.\".IP
.\"The \*Vname\*O parameter is a string that describes
.\"the name of the community.
.\".IP
.\"The \*VIP-address\*O parameter is the dot-notation Internet Protocol (IP)
.\"address of the Network Management System to receive traps generated by
.\"the Common Agent.
.\".\"
.\".IP "\*Lno_auth_traps\*O"
.\"The \*Lno_auth_traps\*O
.\"directive specifies that no authentication traps are to be sent to any
.\"of the trap communities.
.\".IP
.\"If this directive is not specified, the \*Lsnmp_pe\*O process will issue
.\"authentication traps to all trap communities.
.\".LE
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lsnmpsetup\*O(8)
.PP
Daemons: \*Lfddi_mom\*O(8), \*Linternet_mom\*O(8), \*Lmold\*O(8),
\*Ltrn_mom\*O(8)
.PP
\*VManagement Information Base for Network Management of TCP/IP-based Internets: MIB II\*O (RFC 1213)
.PP
\*VA Simple Network Management Protocol\*O (RFC 1157)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
