.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: spray.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/27 19:34:33 $
.\"
.\"
.TH spray 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lspray\*O \- Spray packets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/spray\*O [ \*L-c \*Vcount\*O ] [ \*L-d \*Vdelay\*O ]
[ \*L-l \*Vlength\*O ]
.nL
[ \*L-t \*Vnettype\*O ] \*Vhost\*O
.sE
.\" The following section is not needed.
.\"AVAILABILITY
.\"     SUNWcsu
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "spray"
The \*Lspray\*O command uses RPC to send a one-way stream of packets to the
specified host and reports how many were received, as well
as the transfer rate.  The \*Vhost\*O argument can be either a name or
an Internet address.
.PP
A remote host only responds if it is running the \*Lsprayd\*O
daemon, which is normally started up from \*Linetd\*O(8).
.PP
The \*Lspray\*O command is not useful as a networking benchmark.
The \*Lspray\*O command can report a large number of packets dropped when
the drops were caused by \*Lspray\*O sending packets faster than they can be
buffered locally (before the packets get to the network medium).
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-c \*Vcount\*O"
Specifies how many packets to send.  The
default value of \*Lcount\*O is the number of packets
required to make the total stream size
100000 bytes.
.LI "\*L- d \*Vdelay\*O"
Specifies how many microseconds to pause
between sending each packet.  The default is 0.
.LI "\*L-l \*Vlength\*O"
The \*Llength\*O parameter is the numbers of bytes
in the Ethernet packet that holds the RPC
call message.  Since the data is encoded
using XDR, and XDR only deals with 32 bit
quantities, not all values of length are possible,
and \*Lspray\*O rounds up to the nearest
possible value.  When \*Llength\*O is greater than
1514, then the RPC call can no longer be
encapsulated in one Ethernet packet, so the
\*Llength\*O field no longer has a simple
correspondence to Ethernet packet size.  The
default value of \*Llength\*O is 86 bytes (the size
of the RPC and UDP headers).
.LI "\*L-t \*Vnettype\*O"
Specify class of transports.  Defaults to
\*Lnetpath\*O.  See \*Lrpc\*O(3) for a description of
supported classes.
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Routines: \*Lrpc\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
