.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: srconfig.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/17 19:55:09 $
.\"
.TH srconfig 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsrconfig\*O \- Displays and controls source routing functions and parameters for communication on token ring networks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/srconfig  [options]\*O
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
The flags are case insensitive; use uppercase, lowercase, or any
combination. The short form of each flag is indicated by capital
letters. For example \*L\-DElentry\*O can be shortened to
\*L\-de\*O and \*L\-Enasr\*O can be shortened to \*l\-e\*O.
.VL
.\".LI "\*L\-de \*Vmac_address\*O"
.LI "\*L\-DElentry \*Vmac_address\*O"
Deletes the entry in the source routing database for the destination (target)
node that has the address \*Vmac_address\*O.  This option requires
superuser privileges.
.\".LI "\*L\-dise \*Vmac_address\*O"
.LI "\*L\-DISEntry \*Vmac_address\*O"
Disables the entry in the source routing database for the destination
(target) node that has the address \*Vmac_address\*O, marking the
entry as Stale. The system attempts to update the entry through its
route discovery process the next time it needs to communicate with this
node.  This option requires superuser privileges.
.\" Removed per Julia Fey 12/17/93
.\".LI "\*L\-diss\*O"
.\".LI "\*L\-DISSr\*O"
.\"Disables source routing on your system.  This option requires superuser
.\"privileges.
.\".LI "\*L\-e\*O"
.\".LI "\*L\-Enasr\*O"
.\"Enables source routing.  Source routing is automatically
.\"enabled when your system reboots.  This option requires superuser
.\"privileges.
.\".LI "\*L\-ra\*O"
.LI "\*L\-RAttr\*O"
Displays whether source routing is enabled. If enabled, it also displays the
following source routing attributes whose values you can set with 
the other \*Lsrconfig\*O options.
.ML
.LI
Current Source Routing Aging Timer value
.LI
Current Source Routing Discovery Timer value
.LI
Current Source Routing Table size
.LE
.LI "\*L\-RCounter\*O"
Displays the following counters that are associated with the source routing
database:
.ML
.LI
All Routes Explore (ARE) frames sent
.LI
ARE frames received
.LI
Route discovery failures
.LE
.LI "\*L\-REntry \*Vmac_address\*O"
Displays the entry for the node with address \*Vmac_address\*O in the
source routing database.  Each entry describes the current description of the
best path to the node.  There is no default value for \*Vmac_address\*O.
.LI "\*L\-RTable\*O"
Displays all entries in the source routing database.  (See \*L\-re\*O flag.)
.LI "\*L\-SETAgetimer \*Vaging_timer\*O"
Sets the value of the Source Routing Aging Timer, specifying the length of time
a source routing table entry remains valid before being marked as invalid or
Stale. If not set, the system default is 120 seconds. This option
requires superuser privileges.
.LI "\*L\-SETDsctimer \*Vdiscovery_timer\*O"
Sets the value of the Source Routing Discovery Timer, specifying the amount of
time a route discovery process can take before it terminates. If not set, the
system default is 5 seconds. This option requires superuser privileges.
.LI "\*L\-SETMaxentry \*Vmax_entries\*O"
Sets the maximum number of entries in the source routing database. The range of
this parameter is a multiple of 256 from 1024 to 2048. If not set, the system
default is 1024. This parameter can only be increased, not decreased. This
option requires superuser privileges.
.LI "\*L\-u\*O"
Specifies that the MAC addresses are in non-canonical form. This flag can be
used with the \*L\-DElentry\*O, \*L\-DISEntry\*O, \*L\-REntry\*O, and
\*L\-RTable\*O flags only.
.LI "\*L\-Zcounter\*O"
Sets the source routing counters to zero.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "srconfig"
.iX "network" "token ring interface parameters"
.PP
The \*Lsrconfig\*O command reads and modifies entries in the your local
system's source routing database.
.PP
For every remote system on an extended token ring network with which your local
system communicates, there exists a corresponding entry in your
local system's source routing database.  Each entry describes the path to the
remote system on the network.
.PP
Source routing is the mechanism by which data transmitted from your local
node reaches remote systems on other token ring LANs.  Your system
maintains a source routing database so token ring adapters, for example
tra0, can find the route a message is to take to a remote
destination.  The entries list the specific token ring LANs (and their
interconnecting bridges) that the data is to traverse to the remote system.
.PP
To maintain its source routing database, your system frequently executes a
route discovery process to find the most efficient route to each remote
system.  The route discovery process and source routing itself are largely
automatic. However, you can use the \*Lsrconfig\*O commands to manually change
the source routing database entries.
.PP
You need superuser privileges to use the \*Lsrconfig\*O
options, except for the read options.
.SH EXAMPLES
.AL
.LI
To display all the entries in your source routing database, enter:
.iS
\*Lsrconfig -rt\*O
Target Node MAC Address 00-00-0C-01-08-E9 (ip = 130.180.4.3) Have Route
Routing Information: SRF, length 8, direction 0,largest frame 4472 octets
Route Descriptors: 021C 7FFC 0220 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000
Target Node MAC Address 00-00-C9-10-1B-F5 On Ring
.iE
.LI
To display the source routing database entry that applies to a destination
node with address 00-00-c9-10-4a-f3, enter:
.iS
\*Lsrconfig -re 00-00-c9-10-4a-f3\*O
Target Node MAC Address 00-00-C9-10-4A-F3 On Ring
.iE
.LI
To specify a time period of 10 seconds during which your system runs the
route discovery process for its target nodes, enter:
.iS
\*Lsrconfig -setd 10\*O
.iE
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*ENetwork Administration and Problem Solving\*O
.PP
\*ENetwork Programmer's Guide\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
