.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: strace.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/20 22:14:56 $
.\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH strace 8
.SH "NAME"
.PP
\*Lstrace\*O - Writes STREAMS event trace messages to standard output
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/strace\*O [\*Vmod_ID sub_ID pri_level\*O]
.sE
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "strace command"
.iX "STREAMS event tracer"
The \*Lstrace\*O command gets STREAMS event trace
messages from STREAMS drivers and modules via the STREAMS log driver
(\*Lstrlog\*O), and writes these messages to standard output.
You can limit the messages \*Lstrace\*O receives by
specifying arguments to the command.
The arguments, which must be specified together,
are the following:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vmod_ID\*O"
Specifies the STREAMS module identification number.
.LI "\*Vsub_ID\*O"
Specifies a subidentification number (often corresponding to a minor device).
.LI "\*Vpri_level\*O"
Specifies a tracing priority level.  The \*Lstrace\*O command
will get messages of a level equal to or less than the value in the
\*Vpri_level\*O argument.
The value of the argument must be a nonnegative integer.
.LE
.PP
You can specify \*Lall\*O as the value for any of the arguments in
the \*Lstrace\*O command line.
The value \*Lall\*O indicates that there are no restrictions for that argument.
.PP
You can also specify multiple sets of the command's three arguments
to obtain the messages from more than one driver or module.
.PP
More than one \*Lstrace\*O process can open the STREAMS log driver at a time.
When you invoke \*Lstrace\*O,
the log driver compares the sets of
arguments from the command line with actual trace
messages, returning the messages that satisfy the criteria.
.PP
STREAMS event trace messages have the following format:
.iS
.\".ifn .in 0
\*Vseqnum  stdtime  tickstime  pri_level  ntfycode  mod_ID  \e
sub_ID  msgtext
.\".ifn .in
.iE
where:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vseqnum\*O"
The event trace sequence number.
.LI "\*Vstdtime\*O"
The time the message was sent, in the format \*Vhh\*O:\*Vmm\*O:\*Vss\*O.
.LI "\*Vtickstime\*O"
The time the message was sent, measured in machine ticks since the last boot.
.LI "\*Vpri_level\*O"
The tracing priority level as defined by the STREAMS driver
or module that originates the messages.
.LI "\*Vntfycode\*O"
Can be either of the following indicators:
.VL 2m
.LI "\*LE\*O"
Indicates that the message has also been saved in the error log.
.LI "\*LF\*O"
Indicates that the message signaled a fatal error.
.LE
.LI "\*Vmod_ID\*O"
The module identification number of the trace message source.
.LI "\*Vsub_ID\*O"
The subidentification number of the trace message source.
.LI "\*Vmsgtext\*O"
The trace message text.
.LE
.PP
The \*Lstrace\*O command runs until terminated by the user.
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "NOTES"
.PP
Running \*Lstrace\*O with several sets of arguments can
negatively affect STREAMS performance, particularly for those
modules and drivers sending the messages.
.PP
Also be aware that \*Lstrace\*O may not be able to handle
a large number of messages.  If drivers and modules return
messages to \*Lstrace\*O too quickly, some may be
lost.
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
.AL
.LI
To display all trace messages received from the driver or module identified
by \*Vmod_ID\*O \*L28\*O, enter:
.iS
strace 28 all all
.iE
.LI
To display those trace messages from the driver or module identified by
\*Vmod_ID\*O \*L28\*O and its minor devices identified by the
\*Vsub_ID\*Os \*L2\*O, \*L3\*O, and \*L4\*O, enter:
.iS
strace  28 2 all  28 3 all  28 4 all
.iE
.sp 0.4v
This command line causes messages of any tracing priority level
to be displayed.
.LI
To display the trace messages from the same driver or module and \*Vsub_ID\*Os,
but limited to certain priority levels, enter:
.iS
strace  28 2 0  28 3 0  28 4 1
.iE
This command line specifies that messages from driver or module
\*L28\*O and \*Vsub_ID\*Os \*L2\*O and \*L3\*O
must have a tracing priority of \*L0\*O, and those from \*Vsub_ID\*O
\*L4\*O must have a tracing priority equal to or less than \*L1\*O.
.LE
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
.ad l
Commands:  \*Lstrclean(8)\*O, \*Lstrerr(8)\*O.
.PP
Interfaces: \*Lstrlog(7)\*O.
.iX "strace command"
.ad b
.EQ
delim off
.EN
