.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH strclean 8
.SH "NAME"
.PP
\*Lstrclean\*O - Removes outdated STREAMS error log files
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/strclean\*O [\*L\-d \*Vlogdir\*O] [\*L\-a \*Vage\*O]
.sE
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "FLAGS"
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-a \*Vage\*O"
Specifies a maximum age in days for the STREAMS error log files
if this not the default age of 3.
The value of \*Vage\*O must be an integer greater than or less than 3.
.LI "\*L\-d \*Vlogdir\*O"
Specifies a directory for the location
of the STREAMS error log files to be removed
if this is not the default directory \*L/var/adm/streams\*O.
.LE
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "strclean command"
.iX "STREAMS error log directory cleaner"
The \*Lstrclean\*O command cleans the STREAMS error logger
directory of log files (\*Lerror.\*Vmm-dd\*O) that contain error
messages sent by the STREAMS log driver (\*Lstrlog\*O).
If no other directory is specified (the \*Vlogdir\*O argument),
the command removes error log files in the \*L/var/adm/streams\*O directory.
If no other age is specified (the \*Vage\*O argument), the command removes
error log files that have not been modified in 3 days.
.PP
The \*Lstrclean\*O command is executed by the \*Lcron\*O
daemon on a periodic basis.
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
To remove the day-old error log files from
a directory called \*L/tmp/streams\*O, enter:
.iS
strclean -d /tmp/streams -a 1
.iE
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "FILES"
.PP
.VL 10m
.\".zA "defect,6947,R1.1.1,changed /var/streams/error.* to /var/adm/streams/error*"
.LI "\*L/var/adm/streams/error.\*Vmm-dd\*O"
One or more error log file or files on which \*Lstrclean\*O operates.
The \*Vmm.dd\*O in the filename indicates the month and day of the
messages contained in the file.
.\".zZ "defect,6947,R1.1.1,changed /var/streams/error.* to /var/adm/streams/error*"
.LE
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
.ad l
.iX "strerr daemon"
.iX "cron daemon"
Commands:
\*Lstrerr(8)\*O, \*Lcron(8)\*O.
.PP
Interfaces:
\*Lstrlog(7)\*O.
.iX "strlog interface"
.ad b
.EQ
delim off
.EN
