.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH strerr 8
.SH "NAME"
.PP
\*Lstrerr\*O - Receives error messages from the STREAMS log driver
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/strerr\*O [\*L\-a \*Vsys_admin_mail_name\*O] [\*L\-d\*O \*Vlogdir\*O]
.sE
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
.VL 6m
.LI "\*L\-a \*Vsys_admin_mail_name\*O"
Specifies the mail name of the user to receive the message via mail.
This is the system administrator by default.
.LI "\*L\-d \*Vlogdir\*O"
Specifies the directory to contain the error log file.  This is
\*L/var/adm/streams\*O by default.
.LE
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "strerr daemon"
.iX "STREAMS log error daemon"
The \*Lstrerr\*O daemon receives error messages from the STREAMS log driver
(\*Lstrlog\*O) for addition to the STREAMS error log files
(\*Lerror.\*Vmm.dd\*O) in the STREAMS error logger directory
(\*L/var/adm/streams\*O by default).
When first called, the \*Lstrerr\*O daemon creates the log file
\*Lerror.\*Vmm.dd\*O.  This is a daily log file, where \*Vmm\*O indicates
the month and \*Vdd\*O indicates the day of the logged messages.
The \*Lstrerr\*O daemon then appends each error message that it subsequently
receives from the STREAMS log driver to the log file.
.PP
STREAMS error log messages have the following format:
.oS
\*V\c
seq_num  std_time  ticks_time  flags  mod_ID  sub_ID  msg_text
.oE
where:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vseq_num\*O"
The error sequence number.
.LI "\*Vstd_time\*O"
The time the message was sent, in the format \*Vhh\*O:\*Vmm\*O:\*Vss\*O.
.LI "\*Vticks_time\*O"
The time the message was sent, measured in machine ticks since the last boot.
.LI "\*Vflags\*O"
Can be any of the following indicators:
.VL 2m
.LI "\*LT\*O"
Indicates that the message has also been saved in the process's trace log.
.LI "\*LF\*O"
Indicates that the message signaled a fatal error.
.LI "\*LN\*O"
Indicates that the message is to be sent to the system administrator
or specified user via mail.
.LE
.LI "\*Vmod_ID\*O"
The module identification number of the trace message source.
.LI "\*Vsub_ID\*O"
The subidentification number of the trace message source.
.LI "\*Vmsg_text\*O"
The trace message text.
.LE
.PP
The \*Lstrerr\*O daemon will run continuously until terminated by the user.
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "FILES"
.PP
.VL 10m
.LI "\*L/var/adm/streams/error.\*Vmm-dd\*O"
The error log file or files on which \*Lstrerr\*O operates.
.LE
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "NOTES"
.PP
Only one \*Lstrerr\*O process can open the STREAMS log driver at a time.
This restriction is intended to maximize performance.
.PP
The STREAMS error logging mechanism works best when it is not overused.
The \*Lstrerr\*O daemon can degrade STREAMS performance by affecting the
response, throughput, and other behaviors of the drivers and modules
that invoke it.
The daemon will also fail to capture messages if drivers and modules
generate messages at a higher rate than its optimum read rate.
Missing sequence numbers among the messages in a log file indicate
that messages have been lost.
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
.ad l
Interfaces: \*Lstrlog(7)\*O.
.iX "strlog interface"
.ad b
.EQ
delim off
.EN
