.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: strsetup.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/15 14:38:09 $
.\"
.TH strsetup 8
.SH NAME
strsetup \- STREAMS setup and information command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /usr/sbin/strsetup
[
\-cdfi
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lstrsetup\*O command displays the setup of your STREAMS modules
and creates the appropriate character special files for the
STREAMS-based drivers in your kernel configuration.
.iX "strsetup program"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP \-c
Lists the current kernel configuration of
STREAMS modules and devices.
Any user can run the \*Lstrsetup \-c\*O command.
.IP \-d
Deletes all character special files that map to STREAMS drivers.
.IP \-f
Specifies a file that contains the
specifications to build third party or installation-specific
character files for STREAMS-based drivers.
It uses the same specification format as the
\*Lstrsetup.conf\*O file.
.IP \-i
Creates the STREAMS-based special files appropriate
for your kernel configuration.  By default the \*Lstrsetup\*O
command uses the information in the \*L/etc/strsetup.conf\*O file to build
the STREAMS-based special files with the correct names,
file permissions, and minor numbers.  If the \*Lstrsetup.conf\*O
file does not exist, the \*Lstrsetup\*O command
defaults to creating \*Lclone\*O character special files.
.IP
The
\*Lstrsetup \-i\*O command is run automatically at boot time.
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 25
\*L/dev/streams/*\*O
Default directory in which the \*L\-i\*O option creates the pseudodevices
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lstrsetup.conf\*O(4), \*Lnetsetup\*O(8)
.br
\*ESystem Administration\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
