.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: svcsetup.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/09 00:00:41 $
.\" 
.TH svcsetup 8
.PP
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsvcsetup\*O - set up the svc.conf file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.IX "svcsetup"
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/svcsetup\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lsvcsetup\*O script modifies the \*Lsvc.conf\*O file on your system. The
\*Lsvc.conf\*O file must be modified whenever you configure or remove a 
database distribution service, such as the Network Information Service 
(NIS, formerly YP) or BIND (for the hosts database only). 
Changes take effect immediately.
.PP
Modifications to the \*Lsvc.conf\*O file can also be made via an editor.
.PP
When you run \*Lsvcsetup\*O and choose \*Lmodify\*O from the configuration 
menu, you can choose to modify any number of the databases listed by
entering each number separated by a space at the prompt. When choosing 
a service order for a database, enter one number from the menu choices
shown which corresponds to the service order desired.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The recommended configuration is that you have local as the first entry for
all databases, except possibly hosts.
.PP
The Security Integration Architecture (SIA) is now responsible for setting
the service order for the \*Lpasswd\*O and \*Lgroup\*O databases.
The \*Lpasswd\*O and \*Lgroup\*O entry in the \*Lsvc.conf\*O file remain for
backwards compatibility only. The SECLEVEL entry also remains for backwards
compatibility only; SIA now configures system security.
.PP
Only NIS can serve the \*Lnetgroup\*O database, even if \*Llocal\*O is specified
for the \*Lnetgroup\*O entry.
.PP
You must be superuser to run \*Lsvcsetup\*O.
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/etc/svc.conf\*O - Service order configuration file
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Files: \*Lsvc.conf\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
