.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: swapon.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.7.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/29 16:30:01 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\" 
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.TH swapon 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lswapon\*O \- Specifies additional file for paging and swapping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/sbin/swapon\*O [\*L-asv\*O] [\*L-p\*O \*Vpriority\*O] [\*L-l\*O \*Vlowsize\*O] [\*L-h\*O \*Vhighsize\*O] \*Vfilename\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "swapon command"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information 
.\" no support yet for -c option"
.\" [\*L-c\*O \*Vclustersize\*O] 
.\" End Digital-specific information 
The \*Lswapon\*O command is used to specify additional paging files. A
paging file can be
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" No paging to files for DEC OSF/1 V1.2
.\" a file on the system or a raw device.
.\" End Digital-specific information
a block special device.
.\" Begin Digital-specific incormation
.\" Adding info from QAR 9413.
(DEC OSF/1 does not currently support paging and swapping to
a regular file.  All swapping and paging areas must be block special
devices.)
.\" End Digital-specific incormation
The \*Lswapon\*O command uses a priority default of 4 for block special
devices.
Calls to \*Lswapon\*O normally occur in the system multiuser state
initialization.
.PP
To add swap space, you first must specify the swap disk partition in the
\*L/etc/fstab\*O file.  Then, use the \*Lswapon\*O command, specifying
the partition.
.PP
The \*Lswapon\*O command flags can override the partition specifications
in the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file.
.PP
(Because DEC OSF/1 does not currently support paging
and swapping to a regular file, the \*L-p\*O option is not
supported.)
The \*L-p\*O flag specifies the priority of the paging file.
When the kernel looks for a paging
file, it pages to the highest priority file that is available.
If the file is unavailable, it tries a
file of the next highest priority, and so on until it finds a file
onto which it can page. (A file becomes unavailable when it has no more
space.)
Priorities are 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, with 0 being lowest priority, and 4
being highest priority. Multiple paging files can have
the same priority. For example, there can be two files installed
at priority 4. Files of the same
priority are paged out to in a round-robin fashion to balance their
usage.
.\" If the \*Lswapon\*O command is called without the
.\" \*L-p\*O flag, the command
.\" uses a priority default of 4 for block special devices.
.\" , and 3 for regular files.
.PP
(Because DEC OSF/1 does not currently support paging
and swapping to a regular file, the \*L-l\*O and \*L-h\*O options
are not supported.)  The \*L-l\*O
option is used to specify the low water mark.  Normally, the
\*L-a\*O option is used, causing all files marked as \*Csw\*O (swap files)
in the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file to be made available.  The
\*L-h\*O option is used to specify the high water
mark.  The operating system will not expand the paging file to be
larger than the high water mark.  If the paging file grows larger
than the low water mark, and then shrinks below the low water mark,
the operating system will not make the file smaller than the low
water mark. If the low water mark is set to 0, then the paging file will
not shrink after paging space is freed.
The default value for the low water mark is 20Mbytes;
the default value for the high water mark is unlimited.
.\" .PP
.\" The \*L-c\*O flag specifies the cluster size that is used for the paging
.\" file. A cluster size is the number of pages that the kernel will
.\" page in or page out to a file at a time.  Cluster size must be a
.\" power of 2. 
.\" The maximum clustersize is 8.
.\" Please note that once you have set the first paging
.\" file's cluster size, it becomes the cluster size for all
.\" subsequently created paging files.
.\" .PP
.\" Only for paging to files:
.\" It is possible to specify the following \*Lswapon\*O options in the
.\" \*L/etc/fstab\*O file:
.\" .iS
.\" no clsize
.\" sw,pri=\*Vn\*Lclsize=\*Vn\*L,lowater=\*Vn\*L,hiwater=\*Vn\*O
.\" sw,pri=\*Vn\*L,lowater=\*Vn\*L,hiwater=\*Vn\*O
.\" .iE
.\" .PP
.\" The \*Vn\*O variable specifies a number.
.PP
Note that it is possible to create swap space
on a device that is currently part of a logical volume.
This is because physical disks on which the Logical Volume Manager (LVM)
creates logical volumes are not protected from access by other programs.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Installs all paging files specified in the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file.
.LI "\*L-h\*O \*Vhighsize\*O"
The high water mark.  Currently not supported.
.LI "\*L-l\*O \*Vlowsize\*O"
The low water mark.  Currently not supported.
.LI "\*L-p\*O \*Vpriority\*O"
The priority of the specified paging file.  Currently not
supported.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Displays swap space utilization.  For each swap
partition, this flag displays the total amount of allocated swap space, the
amount of swap space that is being used, and the amount of free swap space.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L-v\*O"
Generates verbose output.
.\" 
.\" .LI "\*L-c\*O \*Vclustersize\*O"
.\" The cluster size of the specified paging file.
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
There is no way to stop paging and swapping on a file.  It
is therefore not possible to use swap files that can
be dismounted during system operation.
.PP
The new \*L-p\*O flag replaces earlier versions of the \*L-p\*O flag,
which caused the \*Lswapon\*O command to
designate the paging file as a \*Epreferred\*O paging file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example shows a swap file entry in an \*L/etc/fstab\*O file:
.iS
/dev/rz0b   swap2   ufs   sw   0   0
.iE
.PP
The following command adds the \*L/dev/rz0b\*O block device file as swap space:
.iS
swapon /dev/rz0b
.iE
.\"
.\" To add the \*L/dev/rz0b\*O file to the paging list and specify
.\" a low water mark of 16Mbytes and a high water mark of 64Mbytes,
.\" enter:
.\" .iS
.\" swapon -l 16M -h 64M /dev/rz0b
.\" .iE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/sbin/swapon\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/etc/fstab\*O"
Specifies information about file systems and swap files.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:  \*Lswapon\*O(2)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
