.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sync.8,v $ $Revision: 3.3.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/10/20 18:01:31 $
.\"
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH sync 8
.SH NAME
\*Lsync\*O \- Updates the inode table and writes buffered files to the disk
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*Lsync\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "sync command"
.iX "updating" "inode table"
.iX "inode table"
.iX "writing" "buffered files"
.iX "files" "buffered"
.iX "files" "writing to disk"
.PP 
The \*Lsync\*O command runs the \*Lsync\*O system primitive.
\*Lsync\*O writes all unwritten system buffers to disk.
This includes modified inodes and delayed block I/O.
.PP 
Commands that bring the system down, such as the \*Lshutdown\*O
command, issue their own \*Lsync\*O calls.  Use the \*Lsync\*O command
if the system must be stopped under unusual circumstances, to ensure
file system integrity.
.PP 
Note that the writing of unwritten buffers, although scheduled, is not
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Corrected 'circumstances' per QAR 6104.
necessarily complete upon return from \*Lsync\*O.  In some circumstances
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
it may be appropriate to issue consecutive \*Lsync\*O commands.
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/sync\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions: \*Lsync\*O(2)
.iX "sync command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
