.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: syslogd.8,v $ $Revision: 3.3.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/29 16:44:32 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
.\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail 
.\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1983,1986 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" 
.\" @(#)syslogd.8	6.5 (Berkeley) 5/26/86
.TH syslogd 8
.SH NAME
\*Lsyslogd\*O \- Logs system messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/syslogd\*O [\*L-f\*O \*Vconfig_file\*O] [\*L-m\*O \*Vmark_interval\*O] [\*L-d\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lsyslogd\*O daemon reads and logs messages to a set of files
described in the \*L/etc/syslog.conf\*O configuration file.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "syslogd"
.PP
Each message logged consists of one line.
A message can contain a priority code,
marked by a number in angle braces at the beginning of the line.
Priorities are defined in the \*L/usr/include/sys/syslog.h\*O file.  The
\*Lsyslogd\*O daemon reads from the domain socket \*L/dev/log\*O,
from an Internet domain socket specified in \*L/etc/services\*O,
and from the special device \*L/dev/klog\*O, which reads kernel messages.
The \*Lsyslogd\*O daemon configures when it starts up and
when it receives a hangup signal.
.PP
The \*L/etc/syslog.conf\*O file
contains entries that specify the facility (the part of
the system that generated the error), the error message severity
level, and the destination to which the syslogd
daemon sends the messages.  Each line of the
\*L/etc/syslog.conf\*O file contains an entry.
.PP
The following is an example of an \*L/etc/syslog.conf\*O file:
.oS
#
# syslogd config file
#
# facilities: kern user mail daemon auth syslog lpr binary
# priorities: emerg alert crit err warning notice info debug
kern.debug              /var/adm/syslog/kern.log
user.debug              /var/adm/syslog/user.log
daemon.debug            /var/adm/syslog/daemon.log
auth.debug              /var/adm/syslog/auth.log
syslog.debug            /var/adm/syslog/syslog.log
mail,lpr.debug          /var/adm/syslog/misc.log
binary.err              /var/adm/binary.errlog
msgbuf.err              /var/adm/crash/msgbuf.savecore
kern.debug              /var/adm/messages
kern.debug              /dev/console
*.emerg                 *
.oE
.PP
The facility and the severity level is separated by a period (.).
You can specify more than one facility
by separating them with commas.   You can specify more than one
facility and its level by separating them with semicolons.
The facility and level are separated from the destination
by one or more tabs.
.PP
If you specify an asterisk (*) for a facility, messages generated
by all parts of the system are logged.
All messages of the specified level and of a greated severity
are logged.
Blank lines and lines beginning with \*L#\*O (number sign) are ignored.
.PP
For example:
.oS
*.emerg;mail,daemon.crit          /var/adm/syslog/misc.log
.oE
This line logs all facilities at the \*Lemerg\*O
level (and higher) and the \*Lmail\*O and \*Ldaemon\*O
facilities at the \*Lcrit\*O (or higher) level to the
\*L/var/adm/syslog/misc.log\*O destination file.
.PP
Known facilities and levels recognized by the \*Lsyslogd\*O
daemon are those listed in
\*Lsyslog\*O without the leading \*LLOG_\*O.  The additional facility
\*Lmark\*O has a message at priority \*LLOG_INFO\*O sent to it every
20 minutes (this may be changed with the \*L-m\*O flag).
The \*Lmark\*O facility is not enabled by a facility field
containing an \*L*\*O (asterisk).
The level \*Lnone\*O may be used to disable a particular facility.
For example:
.oS
*.debug;mail.none              /var/adm/syslog/misc.log
.oE
The previous entry sends all messages except mail messages to the
\*L/var/adm/syslog/misc.log\*O file.
.PP
There are four possibilities for the message destination:
.ML
.LI
A filename that begins with a leading \*L/\*O (slash).
The \*Lsyslogd\*O daemon will open the file in append mode.
.LI
A hostname preceded by an \*L@\*O (at sign).
Selected messages are forwarded to the
\*Lsyslogd\*O daemon on the named host.
.LI
A comma separated list of users.  Selected messages are written to those users
if they are logged in.
.LI
An \*L*\*O (asterisk).
Selected messages are written to all users who are logged in.
.LE
.PP
For example:
.oS
kern,mark.debug	/dev/console
*.notice;mail.info	/var/adm/syslog/mail
*.crit	/var/adm/syslog/critical
kern.err	@ucbarpa
*.emerg	*
*.alert	eric,kridle
*.alert;auth.warning	ralph
.oE
The preceding configuration file logs messages as follows:
.ML
.LI
Logs all kernel messages
and 20 minute marks onto the system console
.LI
Logs all notice (or higher) level messages and all mail system messages
except debug messages
into the file \*L/var/adm/syslog/mail\*O
.LI
Logs all critical messages into the \*L/var/adm/syslog/critical\*O file
.LI
Forwards kernel messages of error severity or higher to \*Lucbarpa\*O.
.LI
Informs all users of any emergency messages,
informs users \*Leric\*O and \*Lkridle\*O
of any alert messages, and informs user \*Lralph\*O
of any alert message or any warning message (or higher) from
the authorization system.
.LE
.PP
Destinations for logged messages can be specified with
full pathnames that begin with a leading \*L/\*O (slash).  The
\*Lsyslogd\*O daemon then opens the specified file(s) in append mode.
If the pathname to a \*Lsyslogd\*O daemon
log file that is specified in the \*Lsyslog.conf\*O file
as a \*L/var/adm/syslog.dated/\*Vfile\*O, the
\*Lsyslogd\*O daemon inserts a \*Vdate\*O
directory, and thus produces a day-by-day account of the
messages received, directly above \*Vfile\*O
in the directory structure.  Typically, you will want
to divert messages separately, according to facility, into files such as
kern.log, mail.log, lpr.log, and debug.log.
.PP
If some pathname other than \*L/var/adm/syslog.dated/\*Vfile\*O
is specified as the pathname to the logfile, the
\*Lsyslogd\*O daemon does not create the daily \*Vdate\*O
directory.  For example, if you specify \*L/var/adm/syslog/mail.log\*O
(without the \*L\&.dated\*O suffix after \*Lsyslog)\*O, the
\*Lsyslogd\*O daemon simply logs messages to the \*Lmail.log\*O
file and allows this file to grow indefinitely.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note.
.PP
The \*Lsyslogd\*O daemon can recover the messages in the kernel
syslog buffer that were not logged to the files specified in the
\*L/etc/syslog.conf\*O file because a system crash occurred.
The savecore command copies the buffer recovered from the dump to
the file specified in the "msgbuf.err" entry in the \*L/etc/syslog.conf\*O
file.  When the syslogd daemon starts up, it looks for this file and,
if it exists, processes and then deletes the file.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SS "Examining the Error Log Files"
The \*Lsyslogd\*O
daemon acts as a central routing facility for messages whose
formats are determined by the programs that produce them.
.PP
The \*Lsyslogd\*O
daemon creates the \*L/var/run/syslog.pid\*O file if possible. The file
contains a single line with its process ID.
This can be used to kill or reconfigure the
\*Lsyslogd\*O daemon.
.PP
To bring the \*Lsyslogd\*O daemon down, send it a terminate signal
(for example: \*Lkill `cat /var/run/syslog.pid\`\*O).
.PP
If a \*Lsyslog.conf\*O configuration file does not exist, the \*Lsyslogd\*O
daemon uses the following defaults:
.oS
*.ERR		/dev/console
*.PANIC		*
.oE
The defaults log all error messages to the console and
all panic messages (from the kernel) to all logged-in users.
No files are written.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L\-d\*O"
Turns on debugging.
.LI "\*L-f\*O \*Vconfig_file\*O"
Specifies an alternate configuration file.
.LI "\*L-m\*O \*Vmark_interval\*O"
Selects the number of minutes between mark messages.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/syslogd\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/etc/syslog.conf\*O"
Configuration file.
.LI "\*L/var/run/syslog.pid\*O"
Process ID.
.LI "\*L/dev/log\*O"
The name of the domain datagram log socket.
.LI "\*L/dev/klog\*O"
Kernel log device.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lsavecore\*O(8)
.PP
Functions:  \*Lsyslog\*O(3)
.PP
.\" "Error Logging" in the %\&%\&NOMAP_DNOSysAdminGde_DNOSysNetSetupConfigGde%\&%\&.
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
