.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: talkd.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/29 19:57:12 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH talkd 8
.\" Begin Digital specific information.
.\" ntalkd is supplied by OSF but it is turned off. DEC turns it on so
.\" we can talk to ULTRIX.
.\" End Digital specific information.
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ltalkd\*O, \*Lntalkd\*O \- The remote communications server for the \*Ltalk\*O command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ltalkd\*O
.sE
.PP
.sS
\*Lntalkd\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "talkd"
.iX "servers" "talkd"
The \*Ltalkd\*O server notifies a user or \*Vcallee\*O
when a client or \*Vcaller\*O wants to initiate a conversation.
The \*Ltalkd\*O daemon sets up the conversation if the callee accepts the
invitation.  The caller initiates a conversation by executing the \*Ltalk\*O
command and specifying the callee.  The callee accepts the
invitation by executing the \*Ltalk\*O command specifying the caller.
.PP
The \*Ltalkd\*O daemon listens at a socket for a \*LLOOK_UP\*O
request from a local or remote \*Ltalk\*O client.
On receiving a \*LLOOK_UP\*O request, \*Ltalkd\*O scans its
internal invitation table for an entry that pairs the client
(the local or remote \*Ltalk\*O process) with a caller.
.PP
If an entry exists in the
\*Ltalkd\*O daemon's international invitation table, the \*Ltalkd\*O
daemon assumes that the client process is the callee.
The \*Ltalkd\*O daemon
returns the appropriate rendezvous address to the \*Ltalk\*O process for
the callee.  The callee process then establishes a stream connection
with the caller process.
.PP
If an entry does not exist in the invitation table, the \*Ltalkd\*O
daemon assumes that the client process is the caller.
The \*Ltalkd\*O daemon then
receives the client process's \*LANNOUNCE\*O request.
When \*Ltalkd\*O receives the \*LANNOUNCE\*O request,
\*Ltalkd\*O broadcasts an invitation on
the console of the remote host where the callee is logged in,
unless the caller specifies a particular tty.  At approximately
1-minute intervals, \*Ltalkd\*O rebroadcasts the invitation until either the
invitation is answered by the callee or the call is cancelled by the caller.
.PP
Debugging messages are sent to \*Lsyslogd\*O(8).
For further information on the files used by this daemon, see
the \*Lsyslogd\*O command.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/talkd\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/etc/services\*O"
Defines Internet socket assignments
.LI "\*L/var/adm/utmp\*O"
Contains data about users who are currently logged in
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
The OSF/1 version of \*Ltalkd\*O uses the \*Ltalk\*O 4.3BSD protocol.
This command is sometimes referred to as \*Lntalkd\*O.
It is not compatible with 4.2BSD versions of \*Ltalk\*O.
.\" Begin Digital specific information.
.PP
The following information is specific to Digital.
.PP
The \*Lntalkd\*O server is associated with port 517, the common port number for
\*Ltalk\*O service. \*Ltalkd\*O is associated with port 518, which is
compatible with ULTRIX \*Ltalk\*O service.
.\" End Digital specific information.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Linetd\*O(8), \*Lsyslogd\*O(8), \*Ltalk\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
