.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tcpslice.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/23 19:21:17 $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988-1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that: (1) source code distributions
.\" retain the above copyright notice and this paragraph in its entirety, (2)
.\" distributions including binary code include the above copyright notice and
.\" this paragraph in its entirety in the documentation or other materials
.\" provided with the distribution, and (3) all advertising materials mentioning
.\" features or use of this software display the following acknowledgement:
.\" ``This product includes software developed by the University of California,
.\" Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory and its contributors.'' Neither the name of
.\" the University nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse
.\" or promote products derived from this software without specific prior
.\" written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.TH tcpslice 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ltcpslice\*O \- Extracts sections of or merges \*Ltcpdump\*O files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.iX "tcpslice"
.iX "tcpdump" "extracting sections of the dump file"
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/tcpslice\*O [\*L\-dRrt\*O] [\*L\-w \*Vfile\*O]
.nL
    [\*Vstart-time\*O [\*Vend-time\*O] ] \*Vfile ...\*O
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-d\*O"
Dumps the start and end times specified by the given range and
exits. This option is useful for checking that the given range actually
specifies the times you think it does.  If the \*L\-R\*O, \*L\-r\*O, or
\*L\-t\*O flag has been specified, the times are dumped in the corresponding
format; otherwise, raw format (\*L\-R\*O) is used.
.LI "\*L\-R\*O"
Dumps the timestamps of the first and last packets in each input file
as raw timestamps in the form \*Vsssssssss.uuuuuu\*O. This flag can not be
specified in conjunction with the \*L\-r\*O or \*L\-t\*O flag.
.LI "\*L\-r\*O"
Same as the \*L\-R\*O flag except the timestamps are dumped in human-readable
format, similar to that used by the \*Ldate(1)\*O command. This flag cannot be
specified in conjunction with the \*L\-R\*O or \*L\-t\*O flags.
.LI "\*L\-t\*O"
Same as the \*L\-R\*O flag except the timestamps are dumped in \*Ltcpslice\*O
format, in the \*Vymdhmsu\*O format. See the DESCRIPTION section. This flag
cannot be specified in conjunction with the \*L\-R\*O or \*L\-r\*O flag.
.LI "\*L\-w\*O"
Directs the output to \*Vfile\*O rather than \*Lstdout\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Ltcpslice\*O program extracts portions of packet-trace files
generated using the \*Ltcpdump \-w\*O command. It can also be used to
concatenate files.
.PP
The \*Ltcpslice\*O command copies to \*Lstdout\*O
all packets from its input file(s) whose timestamps fall
within a given range.  The starting and ending times of the range
may be specified on the command line.  All ranges are inclusive.
The starting time defaults to the time of the first packet in the first input
file; this is called the first time. The ending time defaults to ten years after
the starting time. Thus, the command \*Ltcpslice trace-file\*O copies
\*Ltrace-file\*O to \*Lstdout\*O (assuming the file does not include more than
ten years' worth of data).
.PP
There are a number of ways to specify times.  The first is using
UNIX timestamps of the form \*Lsssssssss.uuuuuu\*O (the format
specified by the \*Ltcpdump \-tt\*O command). For example, 654321098.7654
specifies 38 seconds and 765,400 microseconds after 8:51PM PDT, Sept. 25, 1990.
.PP
The examples in this reference page use Pacific Daylight Time (PDT); however,
when displaying times and interpreting times symbolically (as shown in
this reference page), \*Ltcpslice\*O
uses the local time zone, regardless of the time zone in which the \*Ltcpdump\*O
file was generated.  The daylight saving setting used is that which is
appropriate for the local time zone at the date in question.  For example,
times associated with summer months will usually include daylight saving
effects, and those with winter months will not.
.PP
Times may also be specified relative to either the first time
(when specifying a starting time) or the starting time (when specifying an
ending time) by preceding a numeric value in seconds with a plus sign (+).
For example, a
starting time of +200 indicates 200 seconds after the first time, and the two
arguments +200 +300 indicate from 200 seconds after the first time through 500
seconds after the first time.
.PP
Times may also be specified in terms of years (y), months (m), days (d),
hours (h), minutes (m), seconds (s), and microseconds(u).  For example,
the UNIX timestamp 654321098.7654 discussed earlier could also be expressed
as follows:
.oS
90y9m25d20h51m38s765400u
.oE
When specifying times using this style, fields that are omitted default
as follows:
.ML
.LI
If the omitted field is a unit greater than that of the first
specified field, its value defaults to the corresponding value taken from
either first time (if the starting time is being specified) or the starting
time (if the ending time is being specified).
.LI
If the omitted field is a unit
less than that of the first specified field, then it defaults to zero.
.LE
.PP
For example, suppose the input file has a first time of the UNIX timestamp
mentioned previously (38 seconds and 765,400 microseconds after 8:51 PM PDT,
September 25, 1990).  The following example specifies 9:36 PM PDT on the
same date:
.oS
21h36m
.oE
The following example specifies a range from 9:36 PM PDT through 1:54 AM PDT the
next day:
.oS
21h36m 26d1h54m
.oE
Relative times can also be specified when using the \*Vymdhmsu\*O
format.  Omitted fields then default to zero (0) if the unit of the field is
greater than that of the first specified field, and to the corresponding value
taken from either the first time or the starting time if the omitted field's
unit is less than that of the first specified field.  Using the first time
of the UNIX timestamp mentioned previously, the following example
specifies a range from 10:00 PM PDT on that date through 11:10PM PDT:
.oS
22h +1h10m
.oE
The following example specifies a range from 38.7654 seconds after 9:51
PM PDT through 38.7654 seconds after 11:01 PM PDT:
.oS
+1h +1h10m
.oE
The first hour of the file could be extracted using the following
specification:
.oS
+0 +1h
.oE
.PP
Note that with the \*Vymdhmsu\*O format there is an ambiguity between using
\*Lm\*O for month or for minute.  The ambiguity is resolved as follows: if
an \*Lm\*O field is followed by a \*Ld\*O field, it specifies months; otherwise it specifies minutes.
.PP
If more than one input file is specified, \*Ltcpslice\*O
first copies packets lying in the given range from the first file.  It
then increases the starting time of the range to lie just beyond the
timestamp of the last packet in the first file, repeats the process
with the second file, and so on.  In this manner, files with interleaved
packets are not merged.  For a given file, only packets that are newer than any
in the preceding files will be considered.  This mechanism avoids any
possibility of a packet occurring more than once in the output.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
An input filename that beings with a digit or a plus sign (+) can be confused
with a start and end time.  Such filenames can be specified with a
leading period and backslash (./); for example, specify the file
\*L04Jul76.trace\*O as \*L./04Jul76.trace\*O.
.PP
The \*Ltcpslice\*O program cannot read its input from \*Lstdin\*O, since it
uses random-access to read through its input files.
.PP
The \*Ltcpslice\*O program does not write to its output to a terminal (as
indicated by \*Lisatty\*O(3)).  This prevents binary data from displaying on a
user's terminal. You must either redirect \*Lstdout\*O or specify an
output file using the \*L\-w\*O flag.
.PP
The \*Ltcpslice\*O program does not work properly on \*Ltcpdump\*O files
spanning more than one year with files containing portions of packets whose
original length was more than 65,535 bytes or with files containing fewer
than three packets. If you use these files, the following error message is
displayed:
.oS
couldn't find final packet in file
.oE
These problems are due to the interpolation scheme used by \*Ltcpslice\*O
to significantly increase its processing speed when dealing with large trace
files.
The \*Ltcpslice\*O program can efficiently extract slices from the middle of
trace files of any size, and can also work with truncated trace files (that is,
the final packet in the file is only partially present, typically caused by
\*Ltcpdump\*O being killed).
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Ltcpdump\*O(8), \*Lpfstat\*O(1), \*Lpfconfig\*O(8)
.PP
Files: \*Lpacketfilter\*O(7), \*Lbpf\*O(7)
.\".SH AUTHOR
.\"Vern Paxson (vern@ee.lbl.gov), of
.\"Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley, CA.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
