.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: telnetd.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/10 19:20:36 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
.\" provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
.\" duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
.\" advertising materials, and other materials related to such
.\" distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
.\" by the University of California, Berkeley.  The name of the
.\" University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\" from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)telnetd.8	6.7 (Berkeley) 6/28/90
.\" 
.TH telnetd 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ltelnetd\*O \- The DARPA \*Ltelnet\*O protocol server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ltelnetd\*O [\*L\-debug\*O [\*Vport\*O]] [\*L\-D\*O \*Vmodifier\*O \&...]
.\" There was a -l flag in synopsis but it is not discussed in manpage. (rcb)
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L-debug\*O [\*Vport\*O]"
Starts \*Ltelnetd\*O manually, rather than through \*Linetd\*O, on alternate
TCP port number \*Vport\*O (if specified).
.LI "\*L-D\*O \*Vmodifier\*O \&..."
Prints out debugging information.  \*Vmodifier\*Os are:
.VL
.LI "\*Loptions\*O"
Prints information about negotiation of \*telnet\*O options
.LI "\*Lreport\*O"
Same as \*Loptions\*O with additional processing information
.LI "\*Lnetdata\*O"
Displays the data stream received by \*Ltelnetd\*O
.LI "\*Lptydata\*O"
Displays data written to the pty
.LI "\*Lexercise\*O"
Not yet implemented
.LE
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "telnetd"
.iX "protocol"
.iX "DARPA"
.iX "servers"
The \*Ltelnetd\*O daemon is a server that supports the DARPA (Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency) standard \*Ltelnet\*O virtual terminal protocol.
\*Ltelnetd\*O is invoked by the Internet server (see \*Linetd\*O(8))
normally for requests to connect to the \*Ltelnet\*O port as indicated by the
\*L/etc/services\*O file (see \*Lservices\*O(4)).
The \*L\-debug\*O flag may be used, to start up \*Ltelnetd\*O
manually.  If started up this way, \*Vport\*O may be specified to
run \*Ltelnetd\*O on an alternate TCP port number.
.PP
The \*L\-D options\*O may be used for debugging purposes.
This allows \*Ltelnetd\*O to print out debugging information
to the connection, allowing the user to see what \*Ltelnetd\*O
is doing.
.PP
The \*Ltelnetd\*O daemon operates by allocating a pseudoterminal device (see
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\" changed pty(4) to pty(7)
\*Lpty\*O(7)) for a client, then creating a login process that has
.\"End Digital correction.
the slave side of the pseudoterminal as \*Lstdin\*O, \*Lstdout\*O,
and \*Lstderr\*O.  \*Ltelnetd\*O
manipulates the master side of the pseudo-terminal,
implementing the \*Ltelnet\*O protocol and passing characters
between the remote client and the login process.
.PP
When a \*Ltelnet\*O session is started up, \*Ltelnetd\*O
sends \*Ltelnet\*O options to the client side, indicating
a willingness to do remote echo of characters, to suppress go ahead,
to do remote flow control, and to receive terminal type information,
terminal speed information, and window size information from the remote client.
If the remote client is willing, the remote terminal type is
propagated in the environment of the created login process.
The pseudoterminal allocated to the client is configured
to operate in \*Ccooked\*O mode, and with \*LXTABS\*O and
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\" changed tty(4) to tty(7)
\*LCRMOD\*O enabled (see \*Ltty\*O(7)).
.\"End Digital correction.
.PP
The \*Ltelnetd\*O daemon is willing to do: echo, binary, suppress go
ahead, and timing mark.  \*Ltelnetd\*O is willing to have the remote client
do: line mode, binary, terminal type, terminal speed, window size, toggle flow
control, environment, X display location, and suppress go ahead.
.PP
The \*Ltelnetd\*O daemon never sends \*Ltelnet\*O \*Vgo ahead\*O commands.
.PP
Note that binary mode
has no common interpretation except between similar operating systems
(Unix compatible systems in this case).
.PP
Note also that the terminal type name received from the remote client
is converted to lowercase.
.\"Removed Digital specific reference
.\" Begin Digital specific information
.PP
The \*Ltelnet\*O command uses the default Type-of-Service value
recommended by RFC1060, which is as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Ltelnet\*O"
Low delay
.LE
.PP
You can configure this value by specifying it in the
\*L/etc/iptos\*O file. For more information, see \*Liptos\*O(4).
.\" End Digital specific information.
.SH CAUTIONS
.PP
Some \*Ltelnet\*O commands are only partially implemented.
.PP
Because of bugs in the original 4.2BSD \*Ltelnet\*O(1),
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Corrected 'protocol' per QAR 6104.
\*Ltelnetd\*O performs some dubious protocol exchanges
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
to try to discover if the remote client is, in fact,
a 4.2BSD \*Ltelnet\*O(1).
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/telnetd\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Ltelnet\*O(1)
.PP
.\"Removed Digital specific reference.
.\" Begin Digital specific information.
Files: \*Liptos\*O(4)
.\" End Digital specific information.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
