.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tftpd.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 14:41:33 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
...\" Copyright (c) 1983 The Regents of the University of California.
...\" All rights reserved.
...\"
...\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
...\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
...\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
...\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
...\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
...\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
...\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
...\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
...\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
...\" specific prior written permission.
...\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
...\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
...\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
...\"
...\" @(#)tftpd.8	6.5 (Berkeley) 6/24/90
...\"
.TH tftpd 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ltftpd\*O \- The DARPA Trivial File Transfer Protocol server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\" -r pathname added for Sterling per Geetha Brown: Tom Wolklin.
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/tftpd\*O [\*L-d\*O] [\*L-r \*Vpathname\*O] [\*Vdirectory\*O ...]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L-d\*O"
Specifies that the name of the file is sent to
\*Lsyslogd\*O.
.\" Added for Sterling per Geetha Brown: Tom Wolklin.
.LI "\*L-r \*Vpathname\*O"
Specifies the relative pathname a user can specify to transfer a file
that has no path associated with it.  For example, \*L-r /tmp/tftp\*O
causes \*L/tmp/tftp\*O to be prefixed to a file that has no path and the
file is copied to and from the directory \*L/tmp/tftp\*O.  Only one
directory path can be specified with this option.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "tftpd"
.iX "protocol"
.iX "DARPA"
.iX "servers"
The \*Ltftpd\*O
daemon is a server that supports the DARPA (Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency) Trivial File Transfer
Protocol.  The TFTP server operates
at the port indicated in the \*Ltftp\*O service description;
see \*Lservices(4)\*O.  The server is normally started by
\*Linetd(8).\*O
.PP
The use of \*Ltftp\*O
does not require an account or password on the remote system.
Due to the lack of authentication information,
\*Ltftpd\*O will allow only publicly readable files to be accessed.
Files may be written only if they already exist and are publicly writable.
Note that this extends the concept of ``public'' to include
all users on all hosts that can be reached through the network;
this may not be appropriate on all systems, and its implication
should be considered before enabling \*Ltftp\*O service.
The server should have the user ID with the lowest possible privilege.
.PP
Access to files may be restricted by invoking
\*Ltftpd\*O with a list of directories and including pathnames
as server program arguments in \*L/etc/inetd.conf\*O.
In this case, access is restricted to files whose
names are prefixed by the one of the given directories.
.\"Removed Digital specific reference.
.\"Begin Digital specific information.
.PP
The \*Ltftpd\*O daemon validates the files that it has to transfer
against the \*L/etc/tftptab\*O file. If you are transferring files that
are not publicly readable or not in the directories listed on the
command line, you must
make certain that those files are listed in the \*L/etc/tftptab\*O file.
.\"End Digital specific information.
.\" Added for Sterling per Geetha Brown: Tom Wolklin.
.SH RESTRICTION
.PP
The maximum number of directories allowed in the directory list are 62.
The maximum number of files allowed in \*L/etc/tftptab\*O file is 256.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/tftpd\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands: \*Ltftp\*O(1)
.PP
Daemons: \*Linetd\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
