.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: timedc.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/09 18:42:41 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH timedc 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ltimedc\*O \- Controls the \*Ltimed\*O daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ltimedc\*O [\*Vcommand\*O \*Vargument\*O \&... ]
.sE
.PP
The \*Ltimedc\*O, or \*Ltimed\*O control program,
controls the operation of the \*Ltimed\*O(8) daemon.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "timedc"
.iX "time server daemon" "controlling"
.iX "controlling the time server daemon"
.iX "controlling timed"
.iX "server time" "controlling"
The \*Ltimedc\*O program can be used to perform the following tasks:
.ML
.LI
Measure the differences between machines' clocks.
.LI
Find the location of the master time server.
.LI
Enable or disable tracing of messages received by the
\*Ltimed\*O daemon.
.LI
Debug.
.LE
.PP
Without any arguments,
\*Ltimedc\*O prompts for commands from the standard input.
If arguments are supplied, \*Ltimedc\*O
interprets the first argument as a command and the remaining
arguments as arguments to the command.  The standard input
may be redirected, causing
\*Ltimedc\*O to read commands from a file.
.PP
The \*Ltimedc\*O commands can be abbreviated.  The following is a
list of recognized commands:
.VL
.LI "\*L?\*O [\*Vcommand\*O ...] "
.LI "\*Lhelp\*O [\*Vcommand\*O ...]"
Prints a short description of each command specified in the argument list,
or, if no arguments are given, prints a list of the recognized commands.
.LI "\*Lclockdiff\*O \*Vhost\*O \&..."
Computes the differences between the clock
of the host machine and the clocks of the machines given as arguments.
This command is only valid for machines whose clocks are within 12 hours
of the host machine clock.  Machines whose clocks are more than 12
hours different from the host machine clock will report incorrect
time differences.
.LI "\*Ltrace on\*O | \*Loff\*O"
Enables or disables the tracing of incoming messages to
\*Ltimed\*O in the file \*L/var/adm/timed.log\*O.
.LI "\*Lquit\c\*O"
Exits from \*Ltimedc\*O.
.LI "\*Lmsite\c\*O"
Reports the hostname of the master \*Ltimed\*O server in use.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/timedc\*O"
Command path
.LI "\*L/var/adm/timed.log\c\*O"
Tracing file for \*Ltimed\*O
.LI "\*L/var/adm/timed.masterlog\*O"
Log file for master \*Ltimed\*O
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Ldate\*O(1), \*Ltimed\*O(8)
.PP
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\" changed adjtime(3) to adjtime(2)
Calls: \*Ladjtime\*O(2)
.\"End Digital correction.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
