.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: timed.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/29 18:18:14 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH timed 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ltimed\*O \- Controls the time server daemon at system startup
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ltimed\*O [\*L-tM\*O] [\*L-n\*O | \*L-i\*O \*Vnetwork\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L-i\*O \*Vnetwork\*O"
.\"Added definition of networks in response to QAR 17357. Sterling: T. Wolklin
Specifies the names of the networks (as defined in the
\*L/etc/networks\*O file) to be excluded from clock synchronization.
Each network name that is an argument to the \*L-i\*O flag is added to the
list of networks that the \*Ltimed\*O daemon will ignore.  If the \*L-i\*O
flag is used, \*Ltimed\*O accesses all networks to which the host is
connected except for the specified networks.
.IP
If neither the \*L-i\*O flag nor the
\*L-n\*O flag is used, \*Ltimed\*O tries to access all the network
devices connected to the local host.  
.IP
Do not use the \*L-i\*O and \*L-n\*O flags together.
.LI "\*L-M\*O"
Specifies that a machine can become the time server if the master
time server becomes inoperative.
.LI "\*L-n\*O \*Vnetwork\*O"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Corrected 'synchronization' per QAR 6104.
.\"Added definition of networks in response to QAR 17357. Sterling: T. Wolklin
Specifies the names of the networks (as defined in the
\*L/etc/networks\*O file) to be included in clock synchronization.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
When \*Ltimed\*O is started, it gathers information about all the network
devices connected to the local host.  The \*Vnetwork\*O argument to
the \*L-n\*O flag is the name of the network that \*Ltimed\*O should access.
If the \*L-n\*O flag is used, only the specified networks are accessed.
.IP
If neither the \*L-n\*O flag nor the
\*L-i\*O flag is used, \*Ltimed\*O tries to access all the network
devices connected to the local host.  
.IP
Do not use the \*L-n\*O and \*L-i\*O flags together.
.LI "\*L-t\*O"
Enables tracing of messages received in \*L/usr/adm/timed.log\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "timed"
.iX "time server daemon"
.iX "daemon" "time server"
.iX "controlling the time server daemon"
.iX "server" "time"
The \*Ltimed\*O daemon is normally invoked
at boot time by an entry in the \*Linittab\*O file.
The \*Ltimed\*O daemon synchronizes the host's clock with those
of other machines on the local area network that are also running
the \*Ltimed\*O daemon.
The \*Ltimed\*O daemon slows the clocks of some machines
and speeds up the clocks on other machines to create an average network time.
The average network time is computed from measurements of clock differences
using the ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol)
timestamp request message.
.PP
The service provided by \*Ltimed\*O is based  on a master/slave
(client/server) scheme.  When \*Ltimed\*O
is started on a machine, it asks the master \*Ltimed\*O
daemon for the network time and sets the host's clock to that time.
After that, the host accepts synchronization messages periodically sent by
the master and calls the \*Ladjtime\*O system call
to perform the needed corrections on the host's clock.
.PP
The \*Ltimed\*O daemon also communicates with \*Ldate\*O
in order to set the date globally,
and with \*Ltimedc\*O, the \*Ltimed\*O control program.
.PP
If the machine running the master ceases to function, a machine
that is running the \*Ltimed\*O daemon with the \*L-M\*O flag
becomes the new master \*Ltimed\*O daemon.
.PP
.\"Added in response to QAR 17357. Sterling: T. Wolklin
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.rS 5
The \*Ltimed\*O daemon is provided for compatibility.
DEC OSF/1 also provides support for the Network Time Protocol through
the \*Lxntpd\*O daemon.  NTP and \*Ltimed\*O are mutually
exclusive.  Digital recommends you use NTP for time
synchronization.
.sp 6p
.rE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/timed\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/var/adm/timed.log\c\*O"
Contains messages traced for the \*Ltimed\*O command
.\"Removed in response to QAR 17357. Sterling: T. Wolklin
.\".LI "\*L/var/adm/timed.masterlog\c\*O"
.\"Contains the log file for master \*Ltimed\*O
.LI "\*L/etc/networks\*O"
Contains information about the known networks
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Ldate\*O(1), \*Ltimedc\*O(8)
.\"Added xntpd(8). Sterling: T. Wolklin
.PP
Daemons: \*Lxntpd\*O(8)
.PP
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\" changed adjtime(3) to adjtime(2)
.\" changed gettimeofday(3) to gettimeofday(2)
Functions:  \*Ladjtime\*O(2), \*Lgettimeofday\*O(2)
.\"End Digital correction.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
