.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: traceroute.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/09 00:00:50 $
.\"
.TH traceroute 8
.SH NAME
traceroute \- print the route that packets take to the network host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /usr/sbin/traceroute
[
.B \-m
max_ttl
] [
.B \-n
] [
.B \-p
port
] [
.B \-q
nqueries
] [
.B \-r
] [
.B \-s
src_addr
] [
.\" .B \-t
.\" tos
.\" ] [
.B \-w
] [
.B \-w
waittime
]
\*Vhost\*O
[
\*Vpacketsize\*O
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "traceroute command"
The Internet is a large and complex aggregation of
network hardware connected together by gateways.  The \*Ltraceroute\*O
command tracks the route packets follow from gateway to gateway.
The
command uses the IP protocol `time to live' field and attempts to elicit an
ICMP TIME_EXCEEDED response from each gateway along the path to a particular
host.
.PP
The only mandatory parameter is the destination host name or IP number.
The default probe datagram length is 38 bytes, but this may be increased
by specifying a packet size (in bytes) after the destination host
name.
.PP
To track the route of an IP packet, \*Ltraceroute\*O
launches UDP probe
packets with a small ttl (time to live) and then listens for an
ICMP "time exceeded" reply from a gateway.  Probes start
with a ttl of one and increase by one until either an ICMP "port
unreachable" is returned (indicating that the packet reached the host)
or the maximum number of hops is exceeded (the default is 30 hops and
can be changed with the \-m flag).  At each ttl setting, three
probes are launched (the number can be changed with the \-q flag)
and \*Ltraceroute\*O
prints a line showing the ttl, address of the gateway, and
round trip time of each probe.  If the probe answers come from
different gateways, \*Ltraceroute\*O
prints the address of each responding system.
If there is no response within a 3 second timeout
interval (which can be changed with the \-w flag), an asterisk (*)
is printed for that
probe.
.PP
To prevent the destination host from processing the UDP probe packets,
the destination port is set to an
unlikely value.  The destination port value can be changed with the \-p flag,
if necessary.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
Additional \*Ltraceroute\*O options are:
.TP
.B \-m
Sets the max time-to-live (max number of hops) used in outgoing probe
packets.  The default is 30 hops which is the same default used for TCP
connections.
.TP
.B \-n
Prints hop IP addresses using dotted decimal notation.
This saves a nameserver address-to-name lookup for each gateway found on the
path.
.TP
.B \-p
Sets the base UDP port number used in probes (default is 33434).
The \*Ltraceroute\*O command presumes that nothing is listening on UDP ports
\*Vbase\*O
to
\*Vbase+nhops-1\*O
at the destination host (so an ICMP PORT_UNREACHABLE message will
be returned to terminate the route tracing).  If another process
is listening on a port in the default range, this option can be used
to pick an unused port range.
.TP
.B \-q
Sets the number of probes launched at each ttl setting (default is 3).
.TP
.B \-r
Bypasses the normal routing tables and sends directly to a host on an attached
network.
If the host is not on a directly-attached network,
an error is returned.
This option can be used to ping a local host through an interface
that has no route through it (for example, after the interface was dropped by
\*Lrouted\*O(8).
.TP
.B \-s
Uses the following IP address (which must be given as an IP number, not
a hostname) as the source address in outgoing probe packets.  On
hosts with more than one IP address, this option can be used to
force the source address to be something other than the IP address
of the interface on which the probe packet is sent. If the IP address
is not one of this machine's interface addresses, an error is
returned and nothing is sent.
.\" .TP
.\" .B \-t
.\" ???Sets the
.\" .I type-of-service
.\" in probe packets to the following value (default zero).  The value must be
.\" a decimal integer in the range 0 to 255.  This option can be used to
.\" see if different types-of-service result in different paths.  (If you
.\" are not running 4.4BSD, this option is not relevant to you because
.\" services like telnet and ftp do not let you control the
.\" .I type-of-service .)
.\" Not all values of
.\" .I type-of-service
.\" are legal or meaningful \- see the IP spec for definitions.
.\" Useful values are probably `-t 16' (low delay) and `-t 8' (high
.\" throughput).???
.TP
.B \-v
Lists any received ICMP packets other than TIME_EXCEEDED and
UNREACHABLEs.
.TP
.B \-w
Sets the time (in seconds) to wait for a response to a probe.  The
default is 3 seconds.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following command traces the route a packet takes
from localhost to the host nis.nsf.net:
.oS
localhost> \f(CBtraceroute nis.nsf.net\fP

traceroute to nis.nsf.net (35.1.1.48), 30 hops max, 56 byte packet
 1  helios.ee.lbl.gov (128.3.112.1)  19 ms  19 ms  0 ms
 2  lilac-dmc.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.216.1)  39 ms  39 ms  19 ms
 3  lilac-dmc.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.216.1)  39 ms  39 ms  19 ms
 4  ccngw-ner-cc.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.136.23)  39 ms  40 ms  39 ms
 5  ccn-nerif22.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.168.22)  39 ms  39 ms  39 ms
 6  128.32.197.4 (128.32.197.4)  40 ms  59 ms  59 ms
 7  131.119.2.5 (131.119.2.5)  59 ms  59 ms  59 ms
 8  129.140.70.13 (129.140.70.13)  99 ms  99 ms  80 ms
 9  129.140.71.6 (129.140.71.6)  139 ms  239 ms  319 ms
10  129.140.81.7 (129.140.81.7)  220 ms  199 ms  199 ms
11  nic.merit.edu (35.1.1.48)  239 ms  239 ms  239 ms
.oE
Note that lines 2 and 3 are identical.  This is due to a bug in the
kernel on the 2nd hop system \- lbl-csam.arpa \- that forwards
packets with a zero ttl (a bug in the distributed version
of 4.3BSD).
The NSFNet (129.140)
does not supply address-to-name translations for its NSSes.
Therefore, you cannot be certain of the path the packets take
cross-country.
.PP
The following is another example of output from the \*Ltraceroute\*O
command.  Packets from localhost to the host allspice.lcs.mit.edu
are being traced:
.oS
localhost> \f(CBtraceroute allspice.lcs.mit.edu.\fP

traceroute to allspice.lcs.mit.edu (18.26.0.115), 30 hops max
 1  helios.ee.lbl.gov (128.3.112.1)  0 ms  0 ms  0 ms
 2  lilac-dmc.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.216.1)  19 ms  19 ms  19 ms
 3  lilac-dmc.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.216.1)  39 ms  19 ms  19 ms
 4  ccngw-ner-cc.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.136.23)  19 ms  39 ms  39 ms
 5  ccn-nerif22.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.168.22)  20 ms  39 ms  39 ms
 6  128.32.197.4 (128.32.197.4)  59 ms  119 ms  39 ms
 7  131.119.2.5 (131.119.2.5)  59 ms  59 ms  39 ms
 8  129.140.70.13 (129.140.70.13)  80 ms  79 ms  99 ms
 9  129.140.71.6 (129.140.71.6)  139 ms  139 ms  159 ms
10  129.140.81.7 (129.140.81.7)  199 ms  180 ms  300 ms
11  129.140.72.17 (129.140.72.17)  300 ms  239 ms  239 ms
12  * * *
13  128.121.54.72 (128.121.54.72)  259 ms  499 ms  279 ms
14  * * *
15  * * *
16  * * *
17  * * *
18  ALLSPICE.LCS.MIT.EDU (18.26.0.115)  339 ms  279 ms  279 ms
.oE
Note that the gateways 12, 14, 15, 16 and 17 hops away
either do not send ICMP "time exceeded" messages or send them
with a ttl too small to reach localhost.  Further investigation is
required to determine the cause.  For example, by contacting the
system administrator(s) for gateways 14 through 17, you could
discover that these gateways are
running the MIT C Gateway code that does not send "time exceeded"
messages.
.PP
The silent gateway 12 in the example may be the result of a bug in
the 4.[23]BSD network code (and its derivatives):  4.x (x <= 3)
sends an unreachable message using whatever ttl remains in the
original datagram.  Since, for gateways, the remaining ttl is
zero, the ICMP "time exceeded" is guaranteed to not make it back
to us.
.PP
When this bug appears on the destination system
it behaves as follows:
.oS
 1  helios.ee.lbl.gov (128.3.112.1)  0 ms  0 ms  0 ms
 2  lilac-dmc.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.216.1)  39 ms  19 ms  39 ms
 3  lilac-dmc.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.216.1)  19 ms  39 ms  19 ms
 4  ccngw-ner-cc.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.136.23)  39 ms  40 ms  19 ms
 5  ccn-nerif35.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.168.35)  39 ms  39 ms  39 ms
 6  csgw.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.133.254)  39 ms  59 ms  39 ms
 7  * * *
 8  * * *
 9  * * *
10  * * *
11  * * *
12  * * *
13  rip.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.131.22)  59 ms !  39 ms !  39 ms !
.oE
Note that there are 12 "gateways" (13 is the final
destination) and the last half of them are "missing".
What is happening is that the host rip (a Sun-3 running Sun OS3.5)
is using the ttl from our arriving datagram as the ttl in its
ICMP reply.  The reply will time out on the return path
(with no notice sent to anyone since ICMP's are not sent for
ICMP's) until we probe with a ttl that is at least twice the path
length.  This means that the host rip is really only 7 hops away.
.PP
A reply that
returns with a ttl of 1 is a clue this problem exists.
The \*Ltraceroute\*O prints a "!" after the time if the ttl is less than or
equal to 1.  Since many systems continue to run obsolete or
non-standard software, expect to see this problem frequently.
.PP
Other possible annotations after the time are
.BR !H ,
.BR !N ,
.B !P
(host, network, or protocol unreachable, respectively),
.B !S
or
.B !F
(source route failed or fragmentation needed \- if either of these
occurs, the associated gateway is broken).  If
almost all the probes result in some kind of unreachable, the \*Ltraceroute\*O
command will give up and exit.
.PP
This program is intended for use in network testing, measurement
and management.  It should be used primarily for manual fault isolation.
Because of the load it could impose on the network, you should not use
\*Ltraceroute\*O during normal operations or from automated scripts.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lnetstat\*O(1), \*Lping\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
