.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: trn_mom.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/13 13:42:36 $
.\"
.TH trn_mom 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ltrn_mom\*O \- 802.5 Token Ring Managed Object Module (MOM) component of the POLYCENTER Common Agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/trn_mom\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "trn_mom command"
.iX "Token Ring" "Managed Object Module"
The \*Ltrn_mom\*O process executes in conjunction with the other
Common Agent components to provide SNMP agent management functionality.
The other run-time Common Agent components consist of
the \*Lmold\*O process, the \*Linternet_mom\*O process, the \*Lfddi_mom\*O
process, and the \*Lsnmp_pe\*O process.
.PP
The \*Lmold\*O process provides the registration
facility that relates managed object classes to the MOMs that support the
classes, and also acts as a MOM lookup service for the Common Agent components.
The \*Linternet_mom\*O process is the MOM component
of the POLYCENTER Common Agent that provides access to the Internet MIB-II
objects as defined by RFC 1213.
The \*Lfddi_mom\*O process is the MOM component
of the POLYCENTER Common Agent that provides access to the FDDI
MIB managed objects as defined by RFC 1285.
The \*Lsnmp_pe\*O process is the Common Agent's SNMP protocol
engine component that handles incoming SNMP management requests, sends SNMP
management responses, and issues SNMP traps.
.PP
The \*Ltrn_mom\*O process is the mechanism within the
Common Agent that provides access to managed objects as defined by 
\*VIEEE 802.5 Token Ring MIB\*O (RFC 1231).
.PP
The \*Ltrn_mom\*O process sits in the background and services
the following types of requests sent to it from the SNMP protocol engine:
.ML
.LI
GET requests for one or more Token Ring MIB variables.  The requested variables
must be valid, readable variables.
.LI
ACTION (GET-NEXT) requests for one or more Token Ring MIB variables.
.LE
When the \*Ltrn_mom\*O process completes the requested
operation, it returns the results of the operation to the SNMP protocol
engine, which then packages the response appropriately and ships the
response to the requesting Network Management Station.
.\"
.\".SH Files 
.\".PP
.\"\*L/etc/eca/trn_mom.conf???\*O
.\".PP
.\"The 802.5 Token Ring MOM configuration file contains
.\"the default values for the ???
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lsnmpsetup\*O(8)
.PP
Daemons: \*Lfddi_mom\*O(8), \*Linternet_mom\*O(8), \*Lmold\*O(8),
\*Lsnmp_pe\*O(8)
.PP
\*LIEEE 802.5 Token Ring MIB\*O (RFC 1231)
.PP
\*LA Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)\*O (RFC 1157)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
