.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tunefs.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/29 20:14:13 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\" 
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" 
.\" @(#)tunefs.8	6.4 (Berkeley) 5/22/86
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.TH tunefs 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ltunefs\*O \- Tunes an existing UFS file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*L/usr/sbin/tunefs\*O [\*L-a\*O \*Vmaxcontig\*O] [\*L-d\*O \*Vrotdelay\*O] [\*L-e\*O \*Vmaxbpg\*O] [\*L-m\*O \*Vminfree\*O] [\*L-o\*O \*Voptimization_preference\*O]
\*Vfile_system\*O
.in -.5i
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L-a\*O \*Vmaxcontig\*O"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Corrected 'Specifies' per QAR 6104.
Specifies the maximum number of contiguous blocks that will
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
be laid out before forcing a rotational delay (see the \*L\-d\*O
flag).  The default value is 8.
Device drivers that can chain several buffers together in a single
transfer should set this to the maximum chain length.
.LI "\*L-d\*O \*Vrotdelay\*O"
Specifies the expected time (in milliseconds)
to service a transfer completion
interrupt and initiate a new transfer on the same disk.
It is used to decide how much rotational spacing to place between
successive blocks in a file.
.LI "\*L-e\*O \*Vmaxbpg\*O"
Indicates the maximum number of blocks any single file can
allocate out of a cylinder group before it is forced to begin
allocating blocks from another cylinder group.
Typically this value is set to about one quarter of the total blocks
in a cylinder group.
The intent is to prevent any single file from using up all the
blocks in a single cylinder group,
thus degrading access times for all files subsequently allocated
in that cylinder group.
The effect of this limit is to cause big files to do long seeks
more frequently than if they were allowed to allocate all the blocks
in a cylinder group before seeking elsewhere.
For file systems with exclusively large files,
this parameter should be set higher.
.LI "\*L-m\*O \*Vminfree\*O"
Specifies the percentage of space held back
from normal users; the minimum free space threshold.
The default value used is 10%.
This value can be set to zero, however up to a factor of three
in throughput will be lost over the performance obtained at a 10%
threshold.
Note that if the value is raised above the current usage level,
users will be unable to allocate files until enough files have
been deleted to get under the higher threshold.
.LI "\*L-o\*O \*Voptimization_preference\*O"
The file system can either try to minimize the time spent
allocating blocks, or it can attempt to minimize the space
fragmentation on the disk.
If the value of \*Vminfree\*O (see above) is less than 10%,
then the file system should optimize for space to avoid
running out of full sized blocks.
For values of \*Vminfree\*O greater than or equal to 10%,
fragmentation is unlikely to be problematical, and
the file system can be optimized for time.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "tunefs command"
.iX "tuning file systems"
The \*Ltunefs\*O command
changes the dynamic parameters of a UFS file system
which affect the layout policies.
The parameters which are to be changed are indicated by the flags specified.
.PP
This program should work on mounted and active file systems.
Because the superblock is not kept in the buffer cache,
the changes will only take effect if the program
is run on unmounted file systems.
.PP
The system must be rebooted after the
\*Lroot\*O
file system is tuned.
You must
be \*Lroot\*O
to use this command.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/tunefs\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands:  \*Lnewfs\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
