.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: udetect.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/25 22:06:44 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)udetect.8 3.1 of 3/13/92
.TH udetect 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ludetect\*O - Find subset files that have changed since installation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "udetect command"
\*L/usr/lbin/udetect\*O [ \*Voptions\*O ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Ludetect\*O
command reads setld inventory records from standard input.  For each
record, the file in the path field is checksummed and checked with the
\*Llstat\*O(2)
system call.  Records for which there are discrepancies in the checksum
or size are written to standard output.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-m\*O"
Reports missing files by printing inventory records that specify files
that do not exist on the disk.
.LI "\*L\-s\*O"
Specifies strict reporting.  Prints a record if any of the attributes
in the record do not match the current state of the file on the disk.
.LI "\*L\-?\*O"
Displays a usage message.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  setld(8)
.PP
File formats:  stl_inv(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
