.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: updadmin.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 21:59:46 $
.\"
.TH updadmin 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lupdadmin\*O \- Update Administration Utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/updadmin\*O [\*Loptions - none\*O] \*Vargument - none\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "updadmin command"
The
\*Lupdadmin\*O
command invokes the Update Administration Utility.  This utility is
used after an update installation (installupdate (8)) to manage the files
that are saved during an update.  If your system has not been updated, the
utility will be present but you will not be able to invoke it.
.PP
The
\*Lupdadmin\*O
command invokes a menu-driven interface that allows you to manage the
Unprotected Customized Files, Obsolete System Files, and PreMRG files.
The saved files can be viewed, archived to tape or disk and deleted to
recover disk space.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Linstallupdate\*O(8).
.PP
See the "DEC OSF/1 Installation Guide"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
