.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: update.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/11/25 13:34:17 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
...\"
...\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
.TH update 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lupdate\*O - Periodically updates the superblock
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/sbin/update\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "update command"
.iX "superblock" "updating"
The \*Lupdate\*O command executes a \*Lsync\*O system call every 30 seconds.
This ensures that the file system is up to date in the event of a system crash.
This command is provided as a
.\" OSF had this:  script 
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Change made per OSF_QAR 3510.
statically-linked executable
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
in \*L/sbin\*O.
.PP
The \*Lcron\*O program also provides the functionality of the
\*Lupdate\*O command.  The \*Lupdate\*O shell script typically provides the
following functionality:
.oS
#!/bin/sh
while true
do
    sync
    sleep 30
done &
exit 0
.oE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/sbin/update\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcron\*O(8), \*Linit\*O(8), \*Lsync\*O(8)
.PP
Functions:  \*Lsync\*O(2)
.iX "update command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
