.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: updmv.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/11 15:57:33 $
.\"
.TH updmv 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lupdmv\*O \- Moves customized, user, and inventory data files to or from storage.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "updmv utility"
.sS
\*L/usr/bin/updmv\*O \*L-i\*O \*Vlocation\*O
.nL
\*L/usr/bin/updmv\*O \*L-o\*O \*Vlocation\*O
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-i\*O"
Copies the Customized File Inventory (CFI) and User File Inventory (UFI)
files and those files listed in these inventory files
from the specified \*Vlocation\*O to the \*L/var/adm/install/update\*O
directory.
.LI "\*L-o\*O"
Copies the CFI and UFI files and those files listed in the inventory files to
the specified \*Vlocation\*O.
.LE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vlocation\*O"
Specifies the storage area of the files.  This area can be
a tape device, disk device, or a Remote Installation Services (RIS) server area.
.IP
You replace the \*Llocation\*O parameter with the name of the tape or disk
device, or the server name for a RIS server area.  For tape storage, you
must use a no-rewind tape device such as \*V/dev/nrmt*\*O.  For disk storage,
specify the complete directory path.  For storage in a RIS server
area, the client must be registered in the server's RIS database. When
specifying the server, the server name must be followed by a colon (:).
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lupdmv\*O utility is a part of the Reinstallation Toolkit
(RITKIT).  You must have superuser privileges to run this utility.
During a new installation, there are some user files
and customized files that can be overwritten.  To ease the task
of reproducing these files, the RITKIT utilities enable you to
identify and save files from the current installation environment for later
integration into the new installation environment.  The \*Lupdmv\*O
utility is used to move these files to a storage area
or from the storage area to the update area.
.PP
The RITKIT utilities, \*Lgenufi\*O and \*Linvsync\*O, create a
User File Inventory (UFI) file and a Customized File Inventory
(CFI) file, respectively.  The UFI file identifies user files
created after you installed the operating system.  The CFI
file identifies files that were customized after the installation.
Using both of these files, the \*Lupdmv\*O utility obtains the list
of files that must be stored.
.PP
To store the files listed in the CFI and UFI files, you must specify
the \*Lupdmv\*O utility with the \*L-o\*O option followed by the
\*Llocation\*O parameter.  Note that the system must be shut down to
single-user mode before you specify the \*Lupdmv\*O utility with the
\*L-o\*O option.
.PP
To make these files accessible for integration into a new installation
environment, you must then specify the \*Lupdmv\*O utility with the
\*L-i\*O option followed by the \*Vlocation\*O parameter.
The \*Lupdmv\*O utility will then move the files to the
\*L/var/adm/install/update\*O directory so that they can be merged
into the new installation environment using the \*Lupdmerge\*O
utility.
.SH EXAMPLES
.AL
.LI
In this example, the \*Lupdmv\*O utility saves the files
to a tape device.  Note, you must use a no-rewind tape device.
.iS
\*L# updmv -o /dev/nrmt0h\*O
.iE
.LI
In this example, the \*Lupdmv\*O utility stores the files on a disk device:
.iS
\*L# updmv -o /mnt/mydata\*O
.iE
.LI
In this example, the \*Lupdmv\*O utility stores the files in a RIS server area:
.iS
\*L# updmv -o midvale:\*O
.iE
.LI
To restore these files, replace the \*L-o\*O option with the \*L-i\*O
option.  For example, to restore the files that were stored in a
RIS server area, specify the following:
.iS
\*L# updmv -i midvale:\*O
.iE
.IP
The restored image resides in \*L/var/adm/install/update\*O.
.LE
.SH FILES
.VL 4m
.LI "/usr/.smdb./CFI"
Customized File Inventory
.LI "/usr/.smdb./UFI"
User File Inventory
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lgenufi\*O(8), \*Linvsync\*O(8), \*Lupdmerge\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
