.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: usync.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/09 00:01:00 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)usync.8 3.1 of 3/13/92
.TH usync 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lusync\*O - synchronize two setld inventory files to reflect current system status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/lbin/usync\*O
[ \*L\-d\*O ]
\*Vfile1\*O
\*Vfile2\*O
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP \-d
Enables debugging.  This will print the pairs of pathnames being
synchronized on the standard output.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The two inventory files must be sorted in ascending ASCII sequence on
the pathname field.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lusync\*O
command is used to achieve inventory synchronization by merging two
inventory files according to the pathname field of the inventory
records.  The result is directed to standard output.
.PP
If the two inventory files contain records with the same pathname, the
record in \*Vfile2\*O is written and the record in \*Vfile1\*O
is ignored.  If either inventory file contains a pathname not present
in the other file, the record containing that pathname is written to
standard outout.  To reflect the current system inventory, \*Vfile2\*O
should represent a later installation than \*Vfile1\*O.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following command produces a synchronized inventory for two
versions of the OATDCB subset:
.oS
/usr/lbin/usync OATDCB100.inv OATDCB120.inv
.oE
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B usync: file is corrupt
.br
.rS 5
Records in one of the inventory files are not sorted properly.
.rE
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 20
/usr/.smdb./*.inv
Subset inventory files
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
stl_inv(4)
.PP
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
