.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: uucheck.8,v $ $Revision: 3.3.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/20 00:12:07 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH uucheck 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Luucheck\*O \- Checks for files and directories required by \*Luucp\*O
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Luucheck\*O [\*L-v\*O] [\*L-x\*Vdebug_level\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L-v\c\*O"
Displays a detailed explanation of how the \*Luucp\*O program
interprets the permissions file.
.LI "\*L-x \*O\*Vdebug_level\*O"
Displays debugging information.
The valid range for \*Vdebug_level\*O is
0 to 9.
The higher
the number, the more detailed the final report.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "uucheck"
.iX "checking for uucp files and directories"
.iX "file" "uucp, checking for"
.iX "directory" "uucp, checking for"
.iX "uucp files and directories" "checking for"
The \*Luucheck\*O command verifies the presence of the files and
directories required by the \*Luucp\*O program.
In addition to checking for the presence of files required by
\*Luucp\*O, the \*Luucheck\*O command also checks for
some errors in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Permissions\*O file.
.PP
The \*Luucheck\*O command does not check for correct
file and directory modes or for errors in the
\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Permissions\*O file, such
as duplicate login or machine names.
.PP
When the \*Luucp\*O program is installed, \*Luucheck\*O
verifies that the directories,
programs, and support files
required to operate the networking facility are
present.
The command is executed automatically, as one of the first steps in
the installation process, before the required \*Luucp\*O directories,
programs, and files are actually installed.
.PP
Issue the \*Luucheck\*O command from the command line after
installing \*Luucp\*O, configuring \*Luucp\*O for your site,
or making changes in part of the \*Luucp\*O program, such as the
\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Permissions\*O file.
.PP
Note that the \*Luucheck\*O command can only be issued from the command
line if you have superuser authority.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To find out how the \*Luucp\*O program interprets the
\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Permissions\*O file, enter:
.iS
uucheck -v
.iE
The \*L-v\*O flag instructs the \*Luucheck\*O command to verify
that the \*Luucp\*O files exist and displays a detailed explanation of how
the \*Luucp\*O programs interpret the permissions file.
.LI
To set the debug level to 8, enter:
.iS
uucheck -x8
.iE
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/uucheck\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O"
Information about available devices
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Maxuuscheds\*O"
Limits scheduled jobs
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Maxuuxqts\*O"
Limits remote command executions
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Permissions\*O"
Describes access permissions for remote systems
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O"
Describes accessible remote systems
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/*\*O"
Spooling directory
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucppublic/*\*O"
Public directory
.\"Begin Digtal correction.
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/locks/LCK..\*O\*Vnn\*O"
.\"End Digtal correction.
Prevents multiple use of device \*Vnn\*O
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Luucico\*O(8),
\*Luusched\*O(8),
\*Luucp\*O(1),
\*Luustat\*O(1), \*Luuto\*O(1), and
\*Luux\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
