.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: uucico.8,v $ $Revision: 3.3.7.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/10 18:57:59 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH uucico 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Luucico\*O \- Transfers \*Luucp\*O command, data, and execute files to remote systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Luucico\*O [\*L-r\*Vrole_number\*O] [\*L-x\*Vdebug_level\*O] [\*L-s\*Vsystem_name\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L-r\*O\*Vrole_number\*O"
The \*Vrole_number\*Os are \*L1\*O for server mode and \*L0\*O (zero)
for client mode.  The default is \*L0\*O (zero).  If \*Luucico\*O is started
manually, set this flag to \*L1\*O.
.LI "\*L-x\*O\*Vdebug_level\*O"
Displays debugging information on the screen of the local terminal.
The valid range for \*Vdebug_level\*O
is \*L0\*O to \*L9\*O.  The higher the number, the more detailed the final
report.  This flag is useful in correcting problems with the
\*Lexpect_send\*O sequence in the \*LSystems\*O file.
.LI "\*L-s\*O\*Vsystem_name\*O"
The name of the remote system.  Use only when starting \*Luucico\*O
manually.  The \*Vsystem_name\*O is supplied internally when
\*Luucico\*O is started automatically.
.IP
Note that system names must contain only ASCII characters.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "uucico"
.iX "transporting uucp requests"
.iX "uucp requests" "transporting"
.iX "files" "uucp"
The \*Luucico\*O daemon transports \*Luucp Command\*O (\*LC.*\*O),
\*LData\*O (\*LD.*\*O), and \*LExecute\*O (\*LE.*\*O) files created by the
\*Luucp\*O and \*Luux\*O commands to a specified remote system.
Both the local and remote systems run the \*Luucico\*O daemon, and
the two daemons communicate with each other to complete transfer
requests.
.PP
The \*Luucico\*O daemon performs the following actions:
.ML
.LI
Scans the spooling directory
(\*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*Vsystem_name\*O) on the local system for
transfer requests.
.LI
Selects the device used for the communications connection after
checking the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O file and the lock
files in the \*L/var/spool/locks\*O directory.
.LI
Places a call to the specified remote system using information in
the \*LSystems\*O, \*LDialers\*O, and \*LDialcodes\*O files located
in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp\*O directory.
.LI
Performs the required login sequence specified in the \*LSystems\*O
file.
.LI
Checks permissions listed in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Permissions\*O file.
.LI
Checks scheduling limits in the \*LMaxuuscheds\*O and
\*LMaxuuxqts\*O files located in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp\*O directory.
.LI
Runs all transfer requests from both the local and the remote
system, placing the transferred files in the public directories
(\*L/usr/spool/uucppublic/*\*O).
.LI
Logs transfer requests and completions in files in the
\*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Log/uucico\*O directory.
.LI
Notifies specified users of transfer requests.
.LE
.PP
Usually the \*Luucico\*O daemon is called by the \*Luucp\*O and
\*Luux\*O commands when needed, and is started periodically by the
\*Luucp\*O scheduling daemon, \*Luusched\*O, which is started by the
\*Lcron\*O daemon.
.PP
The \*Luucico\*O daemon can be started from the command line for debugging.
The \*Luucp\*O command \*Luutry\*O
.\", \*LUutry\*O, \*LNutry\*O, and
.\"\*Luukick\*O 
also starts \*Luucico\*O with debugging turned on.
.PP
In the case of a \*Luux\*O command request for the execution of a
command on a remote system, the \*Luucico\*O daemon
transfers the files, and the \*Luuxqt\*O daemon executes the
command on the remote system.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To start the \*Luucico\*O daemon from the command line as
a background process and contact the remote system
\*Lhera\*O, enter:
.iS
/usr/lib/uucp/uucico -r1 -shera &
.iE
.LI
To debug \*Luucico\*O connections, start the \*Luucico\*O daemon
with the \*L-x\*O flag, and enter:
.iS
/usr/lib/uucp/uucico -r1 -svenus -x9
.iE
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/uucico\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp\c\*O"
The \*Luucp\*O configuration files
.LI "\*L/var/spool/locks\*O"
Contains lock files that prevent multiple uses of devices and multiple
calls to systems
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp\*O"
Contains all the configuration files for \*Luucp\*O
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O"
Contains information about available devices
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Dialcodes\*O"
Contains dial-code abbreviations
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Dialers\*O"
Specifies initial handshaking on a link
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Maxuuscheds\*O"
Limits scheduled jobs
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Maxuuxqts\*O"
Limits remote command executions
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Permissions\*O"
Describes access permissions for remote systems
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O"
Describes accessible remote systems
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Admin/errors\c\*O"
Lists \*Luucico\*O daemon errors that \*Luucp\*O cannot correct
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Log/uucico\c\*O"
Contains \*Luucico\*O daemon log files
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Status/\*O\*Vsystem_name\*O"
Lists the last time a remote system was contacted and the minimum time
until the next retry
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*O\*Vsystem_name\*O"
Contains \*LC.*\*O, \*LD.*\*O, and \*LE.*\*O files to be
transferred by the \*Luucico\*O daemon
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*O\*Vsystem_name/\*LC.*\*O"
Command files
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*O\*Vsystem_name/\*LD.*\*O"
Data files
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*O\*Vsystem_name/\*LE.*\*O"
Execute files
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucppublic/*\c\*O"
Contains files after transfer by the \*Luucico\*O daemon
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcron\*O(8),
\*Luucp\*O(1),
\*Luustat\*O(1),
\*Luutry\*O(1),
\*Luuto\*O(1),
\*Luux\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
