.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: uucleanup.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/09 14:31:07 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
.TH uucleanup 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Luucleanup\*O \- Deletes selected old files from the \*Luucp\*O spool directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "uucleanup"
.iX "cleaning up the uucp spool directory"
.iX "deleting old uucp spool directory files"
.iX "uucp" "spool directory, cleaning up"
.iX "uucp" "spool directory, deleting old files from"
.iX "spool directory" "uucp, cleaning up"
.iX "spool directory" "uucp, deleting old files from"
.sS
\*Luucleanup\*O [\*Voptions\*O]
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\"This did not format correctly for our format.
.\" \*Luucleanup\*O [\*L-C\*Vdays\*O] [\*L-D\*Vdays\f1\*O] [\*L-m\*Vstring\f1\*O] [\*L-o\*Vdays\f1\*O] [\*L-s\*Vsystem\f1\*O] [\*L-T\*Vdays\f1\*O] [\*L-W\*Vdays\f1\*O] [\*L-X\*Vdays\f1\*O] [\*L-x\*Vlevel\f1\*O]
.sE
.\"End Digital correction.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
If you specify one of the following flags, you must provide a value
for \*Vdays\*O.  The default value listed is used if the flag is not specified.
.VL
.LI "\*L-C\*O\*Vdays\*O"
Removes any \*LC.*\*O(Command) files as old as or older
than the number of days specified by \*Vdays\*O, and sends
appropriate information to the requester.
The default is 7 days.  The \*L-C\*O and \*L-W\*O flags cannot be combined.
.LI "\*L-D\*O\*Vdays\*O"
Removes any \*LD.*\*O(Data) files as old as or older than
the number of days specified in \*Vdays\*O.
Also attempts to deliver any remaining mail messages.  The default is 7 days.
.LI "\*L-m\*O\*Vstring\*O"
Includes a specified line of text in the warning message generated by the
\*L-W\*O flag.  The default line is:
.\" Begin Digital correction
.\" This was too wide for our format.
.\" Could not get font to return to monospace following variable
.\" machine_name.
.oS
We have been unable to contact machine
\*Vmachine_name\*O \*Csince you queued your job.\*O
.oE
.\" End Digital correction
.IP
The \*L-m\*O flag can be used only with the \*L-W\*O flag.
.LI "\*L-o\*O\*Vdays\*O"
Removes files in addition to those specified by the \*L-C\*O, \*L-D\*O, and
\*L-X\*O flags that are as old as or older than the number of days
specified in \*Vdays\*O.  The default is 2 days.
.LI "\*L-s\*O\*Vsystem\*O"
Executes \*Luucleanup\*O only on the spool directory specified by
\*Vsystem\*O.  The default is to clean up all \*Luucp\*O spool directories.
.IP
Note that system names can contain only ASCII characters.
.LI "\*L-T\*O\*Vdays\*O"
Removes \*LTM.*\*O (Temporary) files as old as or older than the
number of days specified by the \*Vdays\*O argument.
Also attempts to deliver any remaining mail messages.
The default is 7 days.
.LI "\*L-W\*O\*Vdays\*O"
Sends a mail message to the requester warning that \*LC*.\*O
files as old as or older than the number of days specified in
\*Vdays\*O are still in the spool directory.
The message includes the job ID and, in the case of
mail, the mail message.  The administrator can use the \*L-m\*O
flag to include a message line telling who to call to check the
problem.  The default is 1 day.
.LI "\*L-X\*O\*Vdays\*O"
Removes any \*LX.*\*O(Execute) files as old as or older than
the number of days specified in \*Vdays\*O.
The default is 2 days.
.LI "\*L-x\*O\*Vlevel\*O"
Displays debugging information
on the screen of the local terminal; \*Vlevel\*O must be an integer from
0 to 9.  The higher the number, the more detailed the debugging information.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Luucleanup\*O program removes outdated files from the spool
directory \*L/usr/spool/uucp\*O.  The \*Luucleanup\*O program scans
the \*L/usr/spool/uucp\*O spool directory for old files and takes
appropriate action to remove them in a useful way.
The \*Luucleanup\*O command performs the following tasks:
.ML
.LI
Informs the requester of send/receive requests for systems that
cannot be reached
.LI
Warns users about requests that wait  more than a specified
number of days (the default is 1 day)
.LI
Returns mail that cannot be delivered to the sender
.LI
Removes all other files older than a specified number of days from
the spool directory.
.LE
.PP
The \*Luucleanup\*O program is not usually invoked from the command
line, but is executed by the shell procedure
\*Luudemon.cleanu\*O
located in \*L/usr/lib/uucp\*O, which in
turn is started by the \*Lcron\*O script located in
\*L/usr/adm/cron/crontabs/uucp\*O.
Only someone with superuser privileges can issue the \*Luucleanup\*O
command from the command line.
.PP
To enable automatic cleanup, edit the file
\*L/usr/adm/cron/crontabs/uucp\*O.  Remove the \*L#\*O
(number sign) from the beginning of the \*Luudemon.cleanu\*O line.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.\"Begin Digital correction: added system prompt and broke long lines
.LI
To locate files, enter:
.iS
# uucleanup -W2
.iE
This form of the command locates \*LC.*\*O (Command) files
2 or more days old and warns the requesters that the files have not
been sent.
.LI
To send a message with a warning, enter:
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\"Line was too long; had to shorten.
.iS
# uucleanup -W2 -mContact the System Admin about these files
.iE
This form of the command  locates \*LC.*\*O (Command) files
1 or more days old (the default), warns requesters their files have
not been sent, and gives them the message:
.oS
Contact the System Admin about these files.
.oE
.\"End Digital correction.
.LI
To clean up command files that are 8 or more days old, enter:
.iS
# uucleanup -C8
.iE
This form of the command removes all \*LC.*\*O (Command) files 8 or more
days old and sends an appropriate message to the requesters.
Other \*Luucp\*O spool files are removed based on the default value for
that type.
.LI
To clean up data and execute files, enter:
.iS
# uucleanup -D7 -X3
.iE
This form of the command removes all \*LD.*\*O (Data) files
7 or more days old (the default) and all \*LX.*\*O (Execute) files
older than 3 days and attempts to deliver all undelivered mail.
Remaining \*Luucp\*O spool files are removed based on the default value for
that type.
.LI
To clean up other files, enter:
.iS
# uucleanup -o2
.iE
.\" This form of the command removes \*Luucp\*O request files other
.\" than \*LC.*\*O, \*LD.*\*O, and \*LX.*\*O files if the files are 2 or more
.\" days old (the default).
This form of the command removes \*Luucp\*O spool files according to their
default values except for other files, which are removed if 2 days or older.
.LI
To clean up all files at once, enter the command without flags:
.iS
# uucleanup
.iE
This form of the command removes all \*LC.*\*O, \*LD.*\*O,
and \*LX.*\*O files, and all other files older than the default times.
.LI
To clean up files for system \*Lhera\*O, enter:
.iS
# uucleanup -shera -C5
.iE
This form of the command removes all \*LC.*\*O
files 5 or more days old and the other \*Luucp\*O spool files according to
their default files for system \*Lhera\*O (the files are
in \*L/usr/spool/uucp/hera/*\*O).
.\"End Digital correction
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/uucleanup\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/cron\*O"
File that starts \*Luudemon.cleanu\*O shell procedure.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp\*O"
Contains all the configuration files for uucp, and the
\*Luudemon.cleanu\*O shell procedure.
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/cron/crontabs/uucp\c\*O"
Schedules uucp jobs for the \*Lcron\*O daemon, including the
\*Luudemon.cleanu\*O shell procedure.
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/*\c\*O"
Contains files removed by the \*Luucleanup\*O command.
.\"End Digital correction
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcron\*O(8), \*Luucp\*O(1), \*Luustat\*O(1), \*Luux\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
