.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: uucpsetup.8,v $ $Revision: 3.3.2.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/19 13:39:46 $
.\"
.TH uucpsetup 8
.SH NAME
\*Luucpsetup\*O \- The \*Luucp\*O setup program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/uucpsetup\*O [ \*L-moiap\*O ]
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-m\*O"
Adds modems,
configuring the dialers for \*Luucp\*O.
.LI "\*L-i\*O"
Adds incoming systems;
that is,
systems that are allowed to call your local system.
.LI "\*L-o\*O"
Adds outgoing systems;
that is, systems that your local system is allowed to call.
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Adds the modems and incoming and outgoing systems to \*Luucp\*O.
The \*L-a\*O option implies the \*L-m\*O,
\*L-i\*O, and \*L-o\*O options.
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Adds the system name to \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Poll\*O file.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "uucpsetup command"
.iX "uucp file" "setting up"
The \*Luucpsetup\*O command provides an interactive facility for setting up
and updating the \*Luucp\*O files necessary to configure your system for
\*Luucp\*O connections.
.PP
To set up \*Luucp\*O initially, run the \*Luucpsetup\*O command with the
\*L\-a\*O option and answer the questions. To update the \*Luucp\*O
files and directories,
run \*Luucpsetup\*O with the \*L\-m\*O, \*L\-o\*O, or \*L\-i\*O options,
as appropriate.
If no options are specified,
the \*L\-m\*O, \*L\-o\*O, and \*L-i\*O options are the default.
.PP
You must be superuser to run \*Luucpsetup\*O.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O"
Contains information about available devices.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Permissions\*O"
Contains access permission codes for remote systems.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O"
Lists accessible remote systems.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Poll\*O"
Contains the polling option for each remote system.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
