.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: uucpd.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/10 18:58:14 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH uucpd 8
.SH NAME
\*Luucpd\*O \- Manages communications between the \*Luucp\*O program and TCP/IP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Luucpd\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "uucpd"
.iX "servers" "uucpd"
.iX "daemons" "uucpd"
.PP
.\" Begin Digital correction.
The \*Luucpd\*O daemon enables \*Luucp\*O connections through
Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)/Internet Protocol (IP). This daemon
handles the login of \*Luucp\*O connections and starts \*Luucico\*O to
process the \*Luucp\*O requests.
.PP
The \*Luucpd\*O daemon is started by the \*Linetd\*O daemon. Make sure
that the entry for \*Luucp\*O exists in \*L/etc/inetd.conf\*O. If the entry
has a comment character at the beginning of the line, remove the
character and restart the \*Linetd\*O daemon.
.cS
***Mangala had me replace this text with the text above. T.Wolklin

The \*Luucpd\*O daemon cannot be started directly from the command line;
instead, this daemon enables uucp connections via TCP/IP.
.PP
The \*Luucpd\*O daemon is started at system initialization or by the
\*Linetd\*O daemon.  The daemon runs
as a background process on all the networked systems
before the uucp program can use the TCP/IP
system to communicate.
.cE
.\" End Digital correction.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.\" Begin Digital correction.
.\" The following path name was changed from /usr/lib/uucp/uucpd. 
.\" T. Wolklin: Silver
.\" The following is a Digital correction.
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/uucp/uucpd\*O"
Specifies the command path
.\" End Digital correction.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp\*O"
Directory containing the uucp configuration files
.LI "\*L/etc/services\*O"
Defines Internet socket assignments used by TCP/IP
.LI "\*L/etc/hosts\*O"
Contains the hostname table used by TCP/IP
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O"
Contains information about available devices
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Permissions\*O"
Contains access permission codes for remote systems
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O"
Lists accessible remote systems
.\" The following file was added by T. Wolklin during Silver.
.\" The following is a Digital correction.
.LI "\*L/ect/inetd.conf\*O"
The default configuration file for the \*Linetd\*O daemon.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Linetd\*O(8)
.PP
.\" The following was added during Silver. T. Wolklin
.\" Begin Digital correction.
Files: \*Linetd.conf\*O(4), \*Lservices\*O(4)
.\" End Digital correction.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
