.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.TH uugetty 8
.SH NAME
\*Luugetty\*O \- Sets the terminal type, modes, speed, and line.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/lib/uucp/uugetty\*O [\*L-h\*O] [\*L-t\*V time\*O] [\*L-r\*O] [\*L-c\*V file\*O] \*Vline\*O
.nL
         [\*Vspeed_label\*O [\*Vterminal\*O [\*Vline_discipline\*O] ] ]
.sE
.PP
The \*Luugetty\*O utility sets the terminal type, modes, speed, and line
discipline.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4
.LI "\*L-h\*O"
Hold the carrier during the initialization phase; do not hang up.
.LI "\*L-t\*O"
Timeout after \*Vtime\*O seconds and drop the line if nothing is
typed while trying to login.
.LI "\*L-r\*O"
Specifies that \*Luugetty\*O should wait for a character before it
displays a login message, thus preventing two \*Luugetty\*O commands
from looping and allowing the line to be shared
by \*Luucico\*O, \*Lcu\*O, and \*Ltip\*O.
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Specifies that \*Vfile\*O should be checked instead
of \*L/etc/uugettydefs\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "uugetty command"
.iX "setting terminal and line attributes (UUCP)"
.iX "terminal" "setting attributes (UUCP)"
.iX "line" "setting attributes (UUCP)"
.iX "UUCP" "setting terminal and line attributes"
.PP
The \*Luugetty\*O command sets and manages terminals by setting up speed,
terminal flags, and the line discipline.  If command flags are
provided, \*Luugetty\*O adapts the system to those
specifications; \*Luugetty\*O prints the
login prompt, waits for the user to enter a username, and invokes
the login command.
.PP
The \*Luugetty\*O command provides all the features of
the \*Lgetty\*O command, but
also provides support through
the \*L-r\*O flag for using the line with
the \*Luucico\*O, \*Lcu\*O, \*Lct\*O, and \*Ltip\*O commands.  The line
can thereby be used in both
directions.  The \*Luugetty\*O command enables users to log in, but
if the line is free, the \*Luucico\*O, \*Lcu\*O, \*Lct\*O,
and \*Ltip\*O commands can be used for dialing
out.  The implementation depends on the fact that
the \*Luucico\*O, \*Lcu\*O, \*Lct\*O, and \*Ltip\*O
commands create lock files when devices are used.  When \*Luugetty\*O
first reads characters, the status of the lock file indicates whether
the line is being used
by \*Luucico\*O, \*Lcu\*O, \*Lct\*O, or \*Ltip\*O, or by someone trying
to log in.
.PP
The \*Vline\*O argument specifies the \*L/dev/entry\*O for
the terminal line.  It
can be entered as a relative pathname or an absolute pathname.
The \*Vspeed_label\*O argument is a pointer into
the \*L/etc/uugettydefs\*O file
where the definitions for speed and other associated flags are located.
If this argument is not specified, \*Luugetty\*O uses the first entry in the
file.  The \*Vterminal\*O argument specifies the name of the terminal type.
This argument is used to set the TERM environment variable for the user
who logs in from this terminal.  The \*Vline_discipline\*O argument
specifies the name of the line discipline.
.PP
When the \*L-r\*O flag is used, the user may have to key several
carriage returns before the login message is displayed.
When \*Luucico\*O attempts to log in, the following login script
informs it that several carriage returns may be necessary before
the login message is displayed,
.PP
\*L"" \er\ed\er\ed\er\ed\er in:--in:\*Vlogin sequence\*O
.\" (writer note - login sequence should be italicized and without ' ')
.PP
where \*Vlogin sequence\*O is whatever is normally used
for the login sequence:
.PP
An entry for an intelligent modem or direct line that has
a \*Luugetty\*O on each end must use the \*L-r\*O flag.  The
following is an \*L/etc/inittab\*O entry
using \*Luugetty\*O on an intelligent modem or direct line:
.PP
\*L30:2:respawn:/usr/lib/uucp/uugetty -r -t 60 tty12 1200\*O
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/uugetty\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/etc/uugettydefs\*O"
The terminal line database file.  This uses the
same format as \*L/etc/gettydefs\*O.
.LI "\*L/etc/inittab\*O"
File which specifies the initialization processes.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/locks/LCK*\*O"
Lock files used by \*Luugetty\*O, \*Luucico\*O, \*Lcu\*O, \*Lct\*O, and
\*Ltip\*O to keep other commands from using the same
terminal line.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Luucico\*O(8), \*Lgetty\*O(8), \*Linit\*O(8), \*Lct\*O(1)
\*Lcu\*O(1), \*Ltip\*O(1), \*Llogin\*O(1), \*Lstty\*O(1)
.PP
Files: \*Lgettydefs\*O(4), \*Linittab\*O(4), \*Ltty\*O(7)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
