.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: uumonitor.8,v $ $Revision: 3.3.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/22 10:26:16 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)uumonitor.8c 10.1 3/12/92
.TH uumonitor 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Luumonitor\*O \- Monitors the UUCP system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/lib/uucp/uumonitor\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "uumonitor program"
The \*Luumonitor\*O command displays a synopsis in tabular format of the
current UUCP status. The format of each line in the table is as follows:
.PP
.sp
.I system_name
#C #X
.I most_recent_status
CNT:#
.I time
.sp
Table entries are defined as follows:
.IP \f2system_name\fP 15
The remote system for which the entry applies.
.IP \f3#C\fP
The number of C.files queued for the remote system.
.IP \f3#X\fP
The number of requests for remote execution from the
remote system.
.IP \f2most_recent_status\fP
The result of the most recent attempt to connect to the
remote system.
.IP \f3CNT:#\fP
The number of times that a failure to log in to the remote
system has occurred.  This does not include the number failed
dial attempts.
.IP \f2time\fP
The time of the last status entry was made for this system.
.PP
.PP
The \*Luumonitor\*O command is helpful for detecting systems that have
backlogs, that have gone away for awhile, that have changed
phone numbers, and so forth.
The CNT: field is useful for detecting a system whose login/passwd
has changed.
If the CNT: field gets larger than the maximum allowable failures
(currently 20),
no further attempts to connect to this system are made.
If the number of C.files queued starts getting unusually large
(depending on the system anywhere from 100-1000),
action should be taken to determine the cause of the backlog.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Luucp\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
