.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: uusched.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/20 00:49:29 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH uusched 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Luusched\*O \- Schedules work for the file transport program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Luusched\*O [\*L-u\*VDebugLevel\*O] [\*L-x\*VDebugLevel\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L-u\*O\*VDebugLevel\*O"
Passed to the \*Luucico\*O daemon  as the \*L-x\*VDebugLevel\*O flag.
The \*VDebugLevel\*O variable is a number from \*L0\*O to \*L9\*O,
with a default of \*L5\*O.  Higher numbers give more detailed
debugging information, which is displayed on the screen of the local system.
.LI "\*L-x\*O\*VDebugLevel\*O"
Outputs debugging messages from the \*Luusched\*O
daemon.  The\*V DebugLevel\*O variable is a number from \*L0\*O to
\*L9\*O, with a default of \*L5\*O. Higher numbers give more detailed
debugging information, which is displayed on the screen of the local
system.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "uusched command"
The \*Luusched\*O daemon schedules work for the \*Luucp\*O file transport
program, \*Luucico\*O. It schedules the transfer of files that are queued
in the \*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*VSystemName\*O directory.  The scheduling daemon
first randomizes the work and then starts the \*Luucico\*O daemon, which
transfers the files.  The \*Luusched\*O daemon is usually started by the
\*Luudemon.hour\*O shell procedure, which is run periodically by the
\*Lcron\*O daemon.  The \*Luusched\*O daemon can also be
started from the command line for debugging purposes.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To start the \*Luusched\*O daemon from the command line, enter:
.iS
/usr/lib/uucp/uusched &
.iE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/uusched\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Luucp\*O(1), \*Luustat\*O(1),
.PP
Daemons:  \*Lcron\*O(8), \*Luucico\*O(8) \*Luux\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
