.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vdump.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 00:42:51 $
.\"
.TH vdump 8
.SH NAME
\*Lvdump\*O \-  performs incremental fileset backups
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX  "vdump command"
.iX  "Fileset" "backup"
.iX  "Backup"
.sS
\*L/sbin/vdump\*O
[\*L\-0\&.\&.9\*O]
[\*L\-CDNVhquvw\*O]
[\*L\-F\*O \*Vnum_buffers\*O]
.nL
[\*L\-T\*O \*Vtape_num\*O]
[\*L\-b\*O \*Vsize\*O]
[\*L\-f\*O \*Vdevice\*O]
.nL
[\*L\-x\*O \*Vnum_blocks\*O] \*Vfileset\*O
.sp 8p
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vfileset\*O"
.iX "Selecting files for backup"
.iX "Backup" "specifying files"
.iX "-: Backup" "Dump"
Specifies the full path name of the directory, fileset, or file system that is
backed up to the storage medium.  In this reference page, the term "fileset"
also refers to UFS directories and file systems.
.LE
.sE
.SH "FLAGS"
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-0\&.\&.9\*O"
.iX "Backup level"
.iX "Default backup level"
Specifies the backup level. The value \*L0\*O for this flag causes the entire
fileset to be backed up to the storage medium.  The default backup level is 9.
.LI "\*L\-C\*O"
.iX "File compression"
.iX "Compressing files"
.iX "-: File compression" "Data compression"
Compresses the data as it is backed up, which minimizes the saveset size.
.LI "\*L\-D\*O"
Backs up the specified subdirectory of a fileset to the storage medium.
Without the \*L\-D\*O flag, the \*Lvdump\*O command backs up the whole file
system that contains the subdirectory.
.LI "\*L\-N\*O"
Does not rewind the tape.
.LI "\*L\-V\*O"
Displays the current \*Lvdump\*O version.
.LI "\*L\-h\*O"
Displays usage help for the \*Lvdump\*O command.
.LI "\*L\-q\*O"
.iX "Errors" "during backup"
Prints only error messages; does not print information messages.
.LI "\*L\-u\*O"
Updates the \*L/etc/vdumpdates\*O file with a timestamp entry from the
beginning of the backup.
.LI "\*L\-v\*O"
.iX "Displaying" "backup information"
.iX "Backup" "displaying information"
Displays the names of the files being backed up.
.LI "\*L\-w\*O"
Displays the filesets that have not been backed up within one week. The
\*L\-w\*O flag does not require a specified \*Vfilesystem\*O\.
.LI "\*L\-F\*O \*Vnum_buffers\*O"
.iX "In-memory buffer"
.iX "-: In-memory buffer" "Memory buffer"
Specifies the number of in-memory buffers to use.  The valid range is 1 through
64 buffers; the default is 8 buffers.
.LI "\*L\-T\*O \*Vtape_num\*O"
Specifies the starting number for the first tape. The default number is 0.
.LI "\*L\-b\*O \*Vsize\*O"
.iX "Block size"
Specifies the number of blocks in 1024-byte units.  The valid range is 1
through 64 blocks; the default is 60 blocks.
.LI "\*L\-f\*O \*Vdevice\*O"
.iX "Saveset destination"
.iX "-: Saveset destination" "Backup destination"
Specifies the destination of the saveset, which can be a device, file,
or - (dash).
.LI "\*L\-x\*O \*Vnum_blocks\*O"
.iX "Backup" "preventing errors"
.iX "Error protection for savesets"
.iX "Saveset error protection"
Offers additional protection against saveset errors by including detection and
correction information in the XOR blocks. Thus, the \*Lrestore\*O command can
recover data even though it detects a read error.  The \*L\-x\*O flag creates
larger savesets and increases the amount of time required to back up a file
system.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lvdump\*O command backs up local files from a single fileset,
defined by \*Vfilesystem\*O, to a local storage device.
The \*Lvdump\*O command is the backup facility for Advanced File
System; however, since the \*Lvdump\*O command is file-system independent, you
can use its additional features with other filesystems such as UFS.
.PP
.iX "Backup date"
.iX "Backup" "incremental"
.iX "Incremental backup"
The \*Lvdump\*O command copies all files in the specified local fileset
that are new or have changed after a certain date
to the default storage device
(\*L/dev/rmt0h\*O).  An alternate storage device can be specified with the
\*L\-f\*O flag. The date is determined by comparing the specified backup level
to previous backup levels recorded in the \*L/etc/vdumpdates\*O file. The
\*Lvdump\*O command performs either an incremental backup, level 9 to 1, or a
full backup, level 0, depending on the desired level of backup and the level
of previous backups recorded in the \*L/etc/vdumpdate\*O file.
.PP
.iX "-: Level 0 backup" "Epoch backup"
The \*Lvdump\*O command backs up all files that are new or have changed since
the latest backup date of all backup levels that are lower than the backup
level being performed.  If a backup level that is lower than the specified
level does not exist, the \*Lvdump\*O command initiates a level 0 backup.
A level 0 backup, which is called the Epoch, backs up all files.
.PP
.iX "Backup" "displaying information"
.iX "Displaying" "backup information"
A typical \*L/etc/vdumpdates\*O file includes entries like the
following, defining the fileset name, last backup level, and date:
.oS

dmn2#set2 8 wed Mar  3 07:40:35 1993
dmn2#set2 9 Thu Mar  4 07:20:42 1993
dmn2#set2 3 Fri Mar  5 07:47:37 1993
dmn2#set2 7 Thu Mar  4 08:23:05 1993
/dev/rz0g 0 Mon Mar  8 12:11:42 1993

.oE
In this example, \*Ldmn2#set2\*O represents an Advanced fileset;
\*L/dev/rz0g\*O represents a UNIX file system.  If you perform a level 8
backup of the \*Ldmn2#set2\*O, using this \*L/etc/vdumpdates\*O file, you can
expect the following results:
.ML
.LI
The \*Lvdump\*O command ignores the \*L/dev/rz0g\*O entry, since it does not
match the specified fileset, \*Ldmn2#set2\*O.
.LI
The \*Lvdump\*O command ignores the level 8 and 9 entries, since these entries
are equal to or higher than the level 8 backup you requested.  This leaves
only the level 3 and 7 entries.
.LI
Of the two remaining entries, the \*Lvdump\*O command chooses the entry with
the most recent dump date, which is the level 3 entry.
.LI
The \*Lvdump\*O commands backs up all files that were created or modified after
the dump date of the level 3 entry.
.LE
.PP
.iX "Timestamp"
.iX "Backup" "timestamp"
When you specify the \*L\-u\*O flag, the \*Lvdump\*O command
enters a time-stamp entry of that fileset and its backup level into the
\*L/etc/vdumpdates\*O file.
.PP
If a file-system entry with a specific backup level does not already exist in
the \*L/etc/vdumpdates\*O file, the \*Lvdump\*O command appends the file with
a new \*Lvdump\*O record; otherwise, the \*Lvdump\*O command overwrites the
existing record, changing the backup date to reflect the most current backup
session. This occurs after all files in the named fileset are successfully
backed up.
.SH NOTE
.PP
The \*Lvdump\*O command modifies the access time of each file in the
fileset.
.SH "RESTRICTIONS"
.PP
The \*L/etc/vdumpdates\*O file is written in ASCII and consists of a
single record per line.  You must have root user privilege to update this file
or to change any record field. If you edit this file, the \*Lvdump\*O command
may no longer have access to update or read the file because it might not be in
the correct format.  Be certain that all records follow the correct format.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
.ML
.LI
.iX "Backup" "level 0"
.iX "Level 0 backup"
.iX "-: Level 0 backup" "Full backup"
To perform a full level 0 backup, enter a command similar to the following:
.oS

% \*Lvdump \-0 \-u \-f /dev/rmt1h /fs1\*O
.oE
.sp
In this example, \*L\-0\*O specifies that all files in the fileset \*Vfs1\*O
will be backed up to \*L/dev/rmt1h\*O; \*L\-u\*O specifies \*Lvdump\*O to
update the \*L/etc/vdumpdates\*O after a successful backup of the fileset.
The output block size is set to 32 kilobytes.
.LI
When the backup saveset device is
the character \*L\-\*O (dash), the \*Lvdump\*O command writes to 
standard output.  Thus, the \*Lvdump\*O and \*Lvrestore\*O commands may be
used in a pipeline expression to copy
filesets.  The following are typical commands, both are equivalent:
.oS

# \*Lvdump \-0 \-f \- /usr | (cd /mnt; vrestore \-x \-f \-)\*O
\*L# vdump \-0f \- /usr | vrestore \-xf \- \-D /mnt\*O
.oE
.LI
For weekly tape backups, a set of 5 tapes per backed up fileset is
also used on a cyclical basis.  Each month a level 0 backup is taken
on a set of fresh tapes that are saved until the next level 0 backup.
.LI
.iX "Backup guidelines"
The following is a guideline for the level of backup to perform
during weekly, biweekly, and monthly periods.
.sp
.TS
tab(@);
cfHB cfHB cfHB cfHB cfHB cfHB
l l l l l l.
_
.sp 4p
@M@Tu@W@Th@F
.sp 4p
_
.sp 6p
Weekly@0@3@2@5@4
.sp
\&@\&@@@@
.sp
Biweekly@0@3@2@5@4
.sp
\&@0@9@8@9@9
.sp
\&@\&@@@@
.sp
Monthly@0@3@2@5@4
.sp
\&@1@9@8@9@9
\&@1@3@2@5@4
\&@1@9@8@9@9
\&@\&@@@@
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 20
.LI "\*L/sbin/vdump\*O"
The \*Lvdump\*O command with static libraries.
.LI "\*L/etc/vdumpdates\*O"
Contains a list of filesets that were backed up, the date that each file
system was backed up, and backup level.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lvrestore\*O(8), \*Lmt\*O(1). 
.\" \*Lclonefset\*O(8), 
.\" \*Lrmt\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
