.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vedquota.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 00:12:38 $
.\"
.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vedquota.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 00:12:38 $
.\"
.TH vedquota 8
.SH NAME
\*Lvedquota\*O \- edits user quotas
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX  "vedquota command"
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/vedquota\*O [\*L\-p\*O \*Vproto_user\*O] [\*L\-u\*O] \*Vusername\*O \&...
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/vedquota\*O [\*L\-p\*O \*Vproto_group\*O] \*L\-g\*O \*Vgroupname\*O \&...
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/vedquota\*O [\*L\-u\*O | \*L\-g\*O] \*L\-t\*O
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L\-g\*O"
.iX "Editing quotas"
.iX "Quota editor"
.iX "Quota" "editing"
.iX "Quota" "grace period for"
.iX "Grace period"
Edits the quotas of one or more groups, specified by \*Vgroupname\*O on
the command line.  When used with the \*L\-t\*O flag, sets or changes the grace period for all
filesets with group quotas specified in the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file. This flag also sets the fileset
quota grace period.
.LI "\*L\-p\*O \*Vproto_user\*O | \*Vproto_group\*O"
.iX "Quota" "duplicating"
Causes \*Lvedquota\*O to initialize the specified quotas by duplicating the
quotas of the specified prototypical \*Vproto_user\*O (if used with the
\*L\-u\*O flag or no other flags) or \*Vproto_group\*O (if used with the
\*L\-g\*O flag).  \*Vproto_user\*O or \*Vproto_group\*O must have a previously
defined and valid quota file.  Editing quotas for one user, then using the
\*L\-p\*O flag to duplicate these quotas is the normal mechanism used to
initialize quotas for a group of users.
.LI "\*L\-t\*O"
Sets or Changes the default grace period for which users may exceed their soft limits.
By default, or when you specify \*L\-t\*O with the \*L\-u\*O flag, the grace
period is set for all filesets with user quotas specified in
\*L/etc/fstab\*O; when you specify \*L\-t\*O with the \*L\-g\*O flag,
the grace period is set for all the filesets with group quotas
specified in \*L/etc/fstab\*O.
.LI "\*L\-u\*O"
Edits the quotas of one or more users, specified by \*Vusername\*O \&... on
the command line.  \*L\-u\*O  is the default.  When used with \*L\-t\*O,
changes the grace period for all filesets with user quotas specified
in \*L/etc/fstab\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lvedquota\*O command is a quota editor.
.PP
For each user or group, the program creates a temporary file with an
ASCII representation of the current disk quotas for that user or group,
then invokes an editor that you use to modify the file.  The \*Lvi\*O
editor is invoked by default.  To override the default, specify
a different editor for the \*LEDITOR\*O environment variable in your
login file.
.PP
Using the editor, you can then modify quotas, add new quotas, and so on.
Setting a quota to \*L0\*O (zero) indicates that no quota should be imposed.
Setting a hard limit to \*L1\*O (one) indicates that no allocations should
be permitted.  Setting a soft limit to \*L1\*O (one) with a hard limit
of \*L0\*O (zero) indicates that allocations should be permitted on
only a temporary basis (see the \*L\-t\*O flag).
The current usage information in the file is for informational purposes;
only the hard and soft limits can be changed.
.PP
.iX "Quota file"
For each fileset, the program creates a temporary file with an
ASCII representation of the current grace period for that user or group,
then invokes an editor that you use to modify the grace period.
The grace period may be specified in days, hours, minutes, or seconds.
Setting a grace period to \*L0\*O (zero) indicates that the default
grace period should be imposed.  Setting a grace period to \*L1\*O second
indicates that no grace period should be granted.
When you exit the editor, \*Lvedquota\*O
reads the temporary file and modifies the \*Lquota.user\*O
and \*Lquota.group\*O files for the target fileset to reflect the
changes made.
.PP
Changes in grace periods take effect immediately, unless a grace
period is currently in effect.  For example, let's assume that a user exceeds
a soft limit and receives a grace period of 7 days.  A subsequent
change to a grace period of 1 day will not affect the user's
already-established grace period, unless the user drops below
the soft limit and exceeds it once again.  The default grace
period for a fileset is specified in
the \*Lquota.user\*O and \*Lquota.group\*O files for the target fileset.
.PP
Only the superuser can edit quotas.
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/vedquota\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "[\*Vfileset_root\*O]\*L/quota.user\*O"
Contains user quotas for filesets
.LI "[\*Vfileset_root\*O]\*L/quota.group\*O"
Contains group quotas for filesets
.LI "\*L/etc/fstab\*O"
Contains fileset names and locations
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lvquota\*O(1), \*Lquotacheck\*O(8), \*Lvquotaon\*O(8),
\*Lquotactl\*O(2), \*Lfstab\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
