.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" 
.TH vet 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lvet\*O \- Starts a DEC Verifier and Exerciser Tool(VET) session.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DEC Verifier and Exerciser Tool"
.iX "DEC VET"
.iX "vet"
\*L/usr/sbin/vet\*O [\*L\-d\*O \*Vdevice-list\*O] [\*L\-F\*O] [\*L\-f\*O \*Vscriptfile\*O] [\*L\-g\*O \*Vgroup-list\*O]
.sp
\*L/usr/sbin/vet\*O [\*L\-p\*O \*Vpasscount\*O] [\*L\-r\*O \*Vruntime\*O] [\*L\-s\*O] [\*L\-nw\*O] [\*L\-display\*O] [\*L\-h\*O]
.sp
\*L/usr/sbin/vet\*O [\*L\-\*O[\*Lno\*O]\*Lsizer\*O]
.\"   vet [-d device-list] [-F] [-f scriptfile] [-g group-list]
.\"       [-p passcount] [-r runtime] [-s] [-nw] [-display] [-h]
.\"       [-[no]sizer]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The DEC Verifier and Exerciser Tool (DEC VET) is a
state-of-the-art installation verification procedure (IVP)
and system exerciser.  It has a set of generic exercisers
designed to ensure the proper installation of hardware and
base operating system software.  DEC VET supports various
exerciser configurations, ranging from a single device
exerciser to full system loading.
.PP
Prior to invoking VET you need to set up the VET database by
running the \*L/usr/sbin/vetsetup\*O script file.
.PP
If the \*L\-d\*O flag is specified, DEC VET tests the specified
devices, then exits.  If the \*L\-f\*O or \*L\-F\*O flags are specified, DEC
VET runs the specified script file and exits.  Otherwise, DEC
VET prompts for user commands.
.PP
To run DEC VET in distributed mode (that is, having DEC VET
on one system control DEC VET on other systems), DEC VET
must be installed on all systems and you must specify
distributed support setup on all systems, when you run
\*L/usr/sbin/vetsetup\*O.  Each system must be running TCP/IP
and contain knowledge of the other systems via BIND or the
\*L/etc/hosts\*O file. See the \*VDEC Verifier and Exerciser Tool
User's Guide\*O for more information on system setup and
distributed mode operation.
.PP
Depending on your session environment setup, DEC VET either
enters command mode or displays its main window using
DECwindows Motif. You can also control how DEC VET is
initialized with command-line flags.  See the \*VDEC Verifier
and Exerciser Tool User's Guide\*O for descriptions of the
DEC VET user commands.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-nw\*O"
Invokes DEC VET in command mode.
.LI "\*L\-display \*Vdispname\*O"
Specifies the display screen on which DEC VET displays
its windows.  If the display option is not specified,
DEC VET uses the display screen specified by your
DISPLAY environment variable.  The \*Vdispname\*O argument
has the format \*Vhostname\*O:\*Vnumber\*O.
.LI "\*L\-d \*Vdevice-list\*O"
Specifies the devices to be tested.  DEC VET tests the
devices and then exits. The \*Ldevice-list\*O argument is a list
of one or more devices.  A blank character (space)
must separate items in the list and a multi-item list must
be delimited by quotation marks.
.IP
Device names have a combination of letters and numbers, for
example, \*Lrrz1c\*O and \*Lrmt0h\*O, and include the path name to the
device, such as \*L/dev/rrz1c\*O.
.IP
If you enter "\*Lall\*O" for \*Vdevice-list\*O, DEC VET acts on all devices.
You issue the show devices all command when running DEC
VET in command mode to find the names of devices connected
to your system.
.LI "\*L\-f \*Vscriptfile\*O"
Specifies a script file containing commands to be executed
by DEC VET.  DEC VET executes the commands in the script
and then exits.
.LI "\*L\-F\*O"
Specifies the default script file (\*Lvet_script.com\*O) to be
executed by DEC VET.  DEC VET executes the commands in
the script and then exits.
.LI "\*L\-g \*Vgroup-list\*O"
Specifies the test groups to run on the devices specified with
the \*L\-d\*O flag.  Each group has a name that can consist of letters,
numbers, and the underscore character, for example, \*Lmemexer_2\*O.
.IP
The \*Vgroup-list\*O argument is a list of one or more groups.
A blank character (space) must separate items in the list
and a multi-item list must be delimited with quotation marks.
.IP
Issue the show groups all for all command when running DEC
VET in command mode to display the names of all test groups.
If this flag is absent, the default group is executed.
.LI "\*L\-h\*O"
Displays the vet usage message.
.LI "\*L\-p \*Vpasscount\*O"
Runs the test groups for the number of passes specified in
pass count.  If this option is absent, the test groups run
for a default pass count of 1 or the specified run time,
whichever completes first.  Used only if \*L\-d\*O, \*L\-f\*O, or \*L\-F\*O is
specified.
.LI "\*L\-r \*Vruntime\*O"
Specifies the amount of time for which the test groups run.
If absent, the test groups run for the specified pass count.
Used only if \*L\-d\*O, \*L\-f\*O, or \*L\-F\*O is specified.
.IP
The \*Vruntime\*O argument can take the following forms: \*Vmm\*O,
\*Vhh\*O:\*Vmm\*O, or \*Vhh\*O:\*Vmm\*O:\*Vss\*O, where \*Vhh\*O is a whole
number indicating the hours, \*Vmm\*O is a whole number indicating the minutes,
and \*Vss\*O is a whole number indicating the seconds.
.IP
If you specify one number without the delimiter (:),
DEC VET interprets the argument as minutes. There is no
practical limit to number.
If you specify 4:344:97987 as a time, DEC VET interprets
the argument correctly.
.LI "\*L\-s\*O"
Specifies that DEC VET display a run summary after the
run has completed.
.LI "\*L\-\*O[\*Lno\*O]\*Lsizer\*O"
Specifies that DEC VET does not run or does run the sizer
when it starts.  If the sizer is not run, you must connect
the devices to be tested before any tests can be run.  By
default, the sizer runs unless \*L\-nosizer\*O is specified.
.LE
.SS X Defaults
The DEC VET application uses the values in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O
file when you logged in and uses the appropriate resource
specification to customize the appearance or characteristics
of its displayed DEC VET windows.  The format for a resource
specification in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O file is:
.sS
[\*Vname\*O.]\*Vresource\*O: \*Vvalue\*O
.sE
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Specifies the application name or the name string that
restricts the resource assignment to that application
or to a component of an application.  If this argument
is not specified, the resource assignment is globally
available to all X applications.
.LI "\*Vresource\*O"
Specifies the X resource.
.LI "\*Vvalue\*O"
Specifies the value that is to be assigned to the resource.
.LE
.PP
In most cases, the period (.) delimiter should be replaced by an asterisk
(*).  For more information, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.PP
Because each toolkit-based application can consist of a combination of
widgets (for example, push buttons and a scroll bar), you can form the name
string by adding widget class and name identifiers to the string.
.PP
For DEC VET, the following application class names are supported:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LVet\*O"
DEC VET Main window and its dialogs
.LI "\*LVet_run\*O"
DEC VET Run window
.LI "\*LVet_summary\*O"
DEC VET Summary window
.LE
.PP
DEC VET supports the general resources listed in \*LX\*O(1X).
For example, to set the foreground and background colors for the DEC VET
Main window, add the following two entries to your \*L.Xdefaults\*O file:
.oS
Vet*background: lightblue
Vet*foreground: navyblue
.oE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
You must invoke \*L/usr/sbin/vetsetup\*O to set up the proper databases
before issuing the shell-level vet command.
.PP
You cannot use -display in conjunction with \*L\-d\*O, \*L\-f\*O, or \*L\-F\*O.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
The following example illustrates issuing a vet command with display
options.  When the user issues the vet command with the \*L\-nw\*O flag,
DEC VET starts a new session in command mode.  The user terminates
the DEC VET session, and control returns to the operating system.
.sp
.iS
csh>  vet -nw
VET_setup>
    .
    .
    .
VET_setup>  exit
csh>
.iE
.LI
The following example illustrates issuing the vet command to exercise
tape drives /\*Ldev/rmt0h\*O and \*L/dev/rmt2h\*O using the default test group;
the user specifies that the run will last for 30 passes or 15 minutes,
whichever completes first.  Once the run has completed, DEC VET returns
control to the operating system.
.sp
.iS
csh> vet -d "/dev/rmt0h /dev/rmt2h" -p 30 -r 15
     ...testing completed. Total errors = 0.
csh>
.iE
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
DEC VET returns the number of errors encountered during the
run as the exit status.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/x11/app-defaults/Vet\*O"
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/vetsetup\*O"
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LX\*O(1X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
