.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vgchange.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:55:35 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.TH vgchange 8
.SH NAME
\*Lvgchange\*O \- Sets the availability of a volume group to yes or no
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/usr/sbin/vgchange\*O \*L\-a\*O \*VAvailability\*O [\*L\-lps\*O] \*VVolumeGroupName\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "vgchange command"
.PP 
The
\*Lvgchange\*O command activates or deactivates one or more volume groups.  The change
depends on the value specified by the
\*L\-a\*O flag; namely,
\*Ly\*O or
\*Ln\*O.
.PP 
The
\*Lvgchange \-a n\*O command deactivates the
\*VVolumeGroupName \*Oand its associated logical volumes. You must close the logical volumes
prior to invoking the
\*Lvgchange \-a n\*O command.
For example, if the logical volume contains
a file system, you must unmount the filesystem.
.PP 
The
\*Lvgchange \-a y\*O command activates the
\*VVolumeGroupName\*O, and all associated physical and logical volumes. When a volume
group is activated, it is available for use, its logical volumes
are available, and its
physical extents are synchronized (if they are stale).  However,
if you included the
\*L\-s\*O flag on the command line, synchronization does not occur.
If the program can not access a physical volume,
it lists the volume's status as missing. If too many physical volumes
in the volume group are missing, the program notifies you that the group
does not have a quorum and cannot be activated. The
\*L\-p\*O flag allows you to
activate the volume group only if all of the physical volumes
belonging to the volume group are available. If the
\*L\-l\*O flag is set, later attempts to open the logical volumes will fail.
To make an open of these logical volumes succeed, the command
\*Llvchange \-a y\*O must be executed.
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L\-a\*O \*VAvailability\*O"
Sets the availability of the volume group. The
\*VAvailability\*O parameter is represented by one of the following:
.VL
.LI "\*Ly\*O"
Makes a volume group available.
.LI "\*Ln\*O"
Makes a volume group temporarily unavailable.
.LE
.LI "\*L\-l\*O"
Disables the open of the logical volumes that belongs to the
volume group.
.LI "\*L\-p\*O"
Activates the volume group only if all of the physical volumes
that belong to it are available.
.LI "\*L\-s\*O"
Disables the synchronization of the stale physical
extents within the volume group specified with the
\*VVolumeGroupName\*O parameter.  This flag only makes sense when
\*L\-a y\*O is specified.
.LE 
.SH EXAMPLES
.AL
.LI
To activate the volume group \*Lvg03\*O, enter:
.iS
vgchange \-a y /dev/vg03
.iE
.LI
To deactivate the volume group \*Lvg03\*O, enter:
.iS
vgchange \-a n /dev/vg03
.iE
.LI
To activate volume group \*Lvg03\*O without
synchronizing extents that are not current, enter:
.iS
vgchange \-a y \-s /dev/vg03
.iE
.LE 
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/vgchange\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lvgcreate\*O(8), \*Lumount\*O(8),
\*Lvgdisplay\*O(8), \*Lvgextend\*O(8), \*Lvgreduce\*O(8)
.iX "vgchange command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
