.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vgcreate.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:57:00 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.TH vgcreate 8
.SH NAME
\*Lvgcreate\*O \- Creates a volume group
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*L/usr/sbin/vgcreate\*O [\*L\-x\*O \*VExtensibility\*O] [\*L\-e\*O \*VMaxPhysicalExtents\*O] [\*L\-l\*O \*VMaxLogicalVolumes\*O] [\*L\-p\*O \*VMaxPhysicalVolumes\*O] 
[\*L\-s\*O \*VPhysicalExtentSize\*O] [\*L\-v\*O \*VVGDA\*O] \*VVolumeGroupName\*O \*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O \&...
.in -.5i
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "vgcreate command"
.PP
The \*Lvgcreate\*O command creates a new volume group.
\*VVolumeGroupName\*O is a symbolic name
for the volume group and must be used by all references to it.
\*VVolumeGroupName \*O is the path to a directory-entry under
\*L/dev \*O which must contain a character special
file named \*Lgroup\*O.  Except for the \*Lgroup\*O entry,
the directory \*VVolumeGroupName\*O should not contain any other entries.
.PP 
The \*Lvgcreate\*O command leaves the volume group in an active state.
.PP 
Before assigning a physical volume to a volume group, the physical
volume has to be created with the \*Lpvcreate\*O command.
.PP 
If \*Lvgcreate\*O fails to install the first specified physical 
volume into the volume group,
the volume group is not created. If, for any reason, one of the
remaining specified physical volumes cannot be installed into the
volume group, an error message is printed, but the installation
continues to the end of the list of physical volumes.
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L\-x \*VExtensibility\*O"
Sets the allocation permission
for adding physical extents on the physical volumes
specified by the
\*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O parameter.  The
\*VExtensibility \*O parameter is represented by one of the following:
.VL
.LI "\*Ly\*O"
Allows the allocation of additional physical extents
on the physical volume.  (The default.)
.LI "\*Ln\*O"
Prohibits the allocation of additional physical extents
on the physical volume. The logical volumes that reside on the physical
volume can still be accessed, after the volume group has been
activated with the \*Lvgchange \-a y\*O command.
.LE
.LI "\*L\-e \*VMaxPhysicalExtents\*O"
Sets the maximum number of physical extents that can be allocated from
any of the physical volumes in the volume group.
The default is \*L1016\*O.
.LI "\*L\-l \*VMaxLogicalVolumes\*O"
Sets the maximum number of logical volumes that the volume group is
allowed to contain.  The default is \*L255\*O.
.LI "\*L\-p \*VMaxPhysicalVolumes\*O"
Sets the maximum number of physical volumes that the volume group is
allowed to contain.  The default is \*L32\*O.
.LI "\*L\-s \*VPhysicalExtentSize\*O"
Sets the number of megabytes in each physical extent, where
\*VPhysicalExtentSize\*O is expressed
in units of megabytes from 1 through 256.
\*VPhysicalExtentSize\*O must be equal
to a power of 2 (for example, 1, 2, 4, 8).
The default is \*L1\*O megabyte.
.LI "\*L\-v \*VVGDA\*O"
This option allows you to specify if a VGDA (Volume Group
Descriptor Area) of the volume group has to be stored on the physical
volume(s).  A VGDA is always stored on the first physical volume specified.  
This flag impacts only the second, third, and so on, physical volumes
specified.  \*VVGDA\*O is represented by one of the following:
.VL
.LI "\*Ly\*O"
Allows the creation of a VGDA
on the physical volume.  (The default.)
.LI "\*Ln\*O"
Prohibits the creation of a VGDA
on the physical volume.
.LE  
.LE 
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\" .AL
.\" .LI
.\" To create a volume group named \*L/dev/my_vg\*O
.\" that contains three physical volumes, with extent size set to 2 megabytes,
.\" enter:
.\" .iS
.\" vgcreate \-s 2  /dev/my_vg  /dev/hdisk3  /dev/hdisk5  /dev/hdisk6
.\" .iE
.\" If the directory \*L/dev/my_vg\*O exists with the character special file
.\" \*Lgroup\*O, the volume group will be created.
.\" .LI
.\" To create a volume group named \*L/dev/user_vg\*O that can
.\" contain a maximum of
.\" three logical volumes, with extent size set to 8 megabytes, enter:
.\" .iS
.\" vgcreate \-l 3 \-s 8  /dev/user_vg  /dev/hdisk3
.\" .iE
.\" A new volume group, \*L/dev/user_vg\*O is created with extent size equal 
.\" to 8 megabytes.
.\" .LE 
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Digital device-specific examples.
This section contains Digital device-specific examples.
.AL
.LI
To create a volume group named \*L/dev/my_vg\*O
that contains three physical volumes, with extent size set to 2
megabytes,
enter:
.iS
vgcreate -s 2  /dev/my_vg  /dev/rz3c  /dev/rz5c  /dev/rz6c
.iE
If the directory \*L/dev/my_vg\*O exists with the character special file
\*Lgroup\*O, the volume group will be created.
.LI
To create a volume group named \*L/dev/user_vg\*O that can
contain a maximum of
three logical volumes, with extent size set to 8 megabytes, enter:
.iS
vgcreate -l 3 -s 8  /dev/user_vg  /dev/rz3c
.iE
A new volume group, \*L/dev/user_vg\*O is created with extent size equal
to 8 megabytes.
.LE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/vgcreate\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lpvcreate\*O(8), \*Lvgchange\*O(8), \*Lvgdisplay\*O(8),
\*Lvgextend\*O(8), \*Lvgreduce\*O(8)
.iX "vgcreate command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
