.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vgdisplay.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:58:09 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.TH vgdisplay 8
.SH NAME
\*Lvgdisplay\*O \- Displays information about volume groups
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/usr/sbin/vgdisplay\*O [\*L\-v\*O] [\*VVolumeGroupName\*O \&...]
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "vgdisplay command"
.PP 
The \*Lvgdisplay\*O command displays information about volume groups.
If you use \*VVolumeGroupName,\*O only the information for that volume 
group is displayed. If you do not use \*VVolumeGroupName\*O a list of 
the names of all defined volume groups is displayed. If the
\*L\-v\*O (verbose) flag is not specified, only the following 
information is displayed:
.VL
.LI "\*LVG Name\*O"
Name of the volume group.
.LI "\*LVG Status\*O"
State of the volume group.  If the volume group is activated with the
\*Lvgchange \-a y\*O command, the state is available. If the volume group
is deactivated with the \*Lvgchange \-a n\*O command, the state is off.
.LI "\*LMax LV\*O"
Maximum number of logical volumes allowed in the volume group.
.LI "\*LCur LV\*O"
Current number of logical volumes within the volume group.
.LI "\*LOpen LV\*O"
Number of logical volumes within the volume group
that are currently open.
.LI "\*LMax PV\*O"
Maximum number of physical volumes allowed in the volume group.
.LI "\*LCur PV\*O"
Current number of physical volumes within the volume group.
.LI "\*LActive PV\*O"
Number of physical volumes that are currently active.
.LI "\*LPE Size\*O"
Size of each physical extent.
.LI "\*LMax PE per PV\*O"
Maximum number (limit) of physical extents that can be allocated from
any of the physical volumes in the volume group.
.LI "\*LTotal PE\*O"
Total number of physical extents within the volume group: this is the
sum of the number of physical extents belonging to each available
physical volume in the volume group.
.LI "\*LAlloc PE\*O"
Number of physical extents currently allocated to logical volumes.
.LI "\*LFree PE\*O"
Number of physical extents not allocated.
.LI "\*LVGDA\*O"
Number of volume group descriptor areas within the volume group.
.LE 
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L\-v\*O"
Lists additional information for each logical volume and for each
physical volume on the volume group:
.PP
\*LLogical volumes\*O: lists the following
information about logical volumes belonging to \*VVolumeGroupName\*O:
.VL
.LI "\*LLV Name\*O"
Name of the logical volume within the volume group.
.LI "\*LLV Status\*O"
State of the logical volume. Available/stale
indicates the logical volume can be opened but contains extents that
are not current. Available/syncd indicates the logical volume
can be opened and it is synchronized. Unavailable indicates that an open
of the logical volume will fail.
.LI "\*LTotal LE\*O"
Number of logical extents in the logical volume.
.LI "\*LUsed PE\*O"
Number of physical extents used by the logical volume.
.LI "\*LUsed PV\*O"
Number of physical volumes used by the logical volume.
.LE
.PP
\*LPhysical volumes\*O: lists the following information about physical 
volumes belonging to \*VVolumeGroupName\*O:
.VL
.LI "\*LPV Name\*O"
Name of the physical volume within the group.
.LI "\*LPV status\*O"
State of the physical volume.
.LI "\*LTotal PE\*O"
Total number of physical extents on the physical volume.
.LI "\*LFree PE\*O"
Number of free physical extents on the physical volume.
.LE
.LE 
.SH EXAMPLES
.AL
.LI
To display information about all the volume groups
within the system, enter:
.iS
vgdisplay
.iE
.LI
To display all of the information about volume group \*Lvg02\*O, enter:
.iS
vgdisplay \-v /dev/vg02
.iE
The characteristics and status of both the logical and physical
extents of volume group \*Lvg02\*O are displayed.
.LE 
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/vgdisplay\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands:  \*Llvdisplay\*O(8), \*Lpvdisplay\*O(8), \*Lvgchange\*O(8),
\*Lvgcreate\*O(8)
.iX "vgdisplay command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
