.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vgextend.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 20:59:44 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.TH vgextend 8
.SH NAME
\*Lvgextend\*O \- Extend a volume group by adding physical volumes to it
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/usr/sbin/vgextend\*O [\*L\-x\*O \*VExtensibility\*O] [\*L\-v\*O \*VVGDA\*O] \*VVolumeGroupName\*O \*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O \&...
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "vgextend command"
.PP 
The \*Lvgextend\*O assigns physical volumes to the
\*VVolumeGroupName\*O.  The volume group must be active.
.PP 
You extend the volume group by adding one or more physical
volumes represented by the
\*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O parameter(s).
.PP 
After the physical volumes have been successfully added to the volume
group, they can be used.
.PP 
Before assigning a physical volume to a volume group, you must
create the physical
volume with the
\*Lpvcreate\*O command.
.PP 
If, for any reason, one of the
remaining specified physical volumes cannot be installed into the
volume group, an error message is printed.  However, the installation
continues to the end of the list of physical volumes.
.SH FLAGS
.VL
.LI "\*L\-x \*VExtensibility\*O"
Sets the allocation permission
for additional physical extents on the physical
volume specified by the \*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O parameter.  The
\*VExtensibility \*O parameter is represented by one of the following:
.VL
.LI "\*Ly\*O"
Allows the allocation of additional physical extents
on the physical volume.  (The default.)
.LI "\*Ln\*O"
Prohibits the allocation of additional physical extents
on the physical volume. The logical volumes that reside on the physical
volume can still be accessed.
.LE
.LI "\*L\-v \*VVGDA\*O"
This option allows you to specify if a VGDA (Volume Group
Descriptor Area) of the volume group must be stored on the physical
volume.  \*VVGDA\*O is represented by one of the following:
.VL
.LI "\*Ly\*O"
Allows the creation of a VGDA
on the physical volume.  (The default.)
.LI "\*Ln\*O"
Prohibits the creation of a VGDA
on the physical volume.
.LE
.LE 
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\" To add physical volumes \*Lhdisk03\*O and \*Lhdisk08\*O to volume group 
.\" \*Lvg03\*O, enter:
.\" .iS
.\" vgextend /dev/vg03  /dev/hdisk03  /dev/hdisk08
.\" .iE
.\" The physical volumes \*Lhdisk03\*O and \*Lhdisk08\*O now belong to volume
.\" group \*Lvg03\*O.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Digital device-specific examples.
This section contains a Digital device-specific example.
.PP
To add physical volumes \*Lrz3c\*O and \*Lrz4c\*O to volume group
\*Lvg03\*O, enter:
.iS
vgextend /dev/vg03  /dev/rz3c  /dev/rz4c
.iE
The physical volumes \*Lrz3c\*O and \*Lrz4c\*O now belong to
volume
group \*Lvg03\*O.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/vgextend\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lpvchange\*O(8), \*Lpvcreate\*O(8), \*Lvgchange\*O(8),
\*Lvgcreate\*O(8), \*Lvgdisplay\*O(8)
.iX "vgextend command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
