.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vgremove.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 21:02:40 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.TH vgremove 8
.SH NAME
\*Lvgremove\*O \- Removes the definition of one or more volume groups from the system
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/usr/sbin/vgremove \*VVolumeGroupName\*O \&...
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "vgremove command"
.PP
The \*Lvgremove\*O command removes from the system the last physical 
volume of the volume group and the definition of the volume group(s)
specified with the
\*VVolumeGroupName\*O parameter. Since all system knowledge of the volume group
and its contents are removed, you can no longer access that volume
group.
.PP 
All logical volumes residing on the last physical volume
must be removed by executing the
\*Llvremove\*O command before executing the
\*Lvgremove\*O command.
.PP 
The \*Lvgremove\*O command is the (effective) inverse of the
\*Lvgcreate\*O command called with one physical volume.
.PP 
Before removing a volume group, you must do two things:
.ML
.LI
Remove all of the logical volumes belonging to the group with the
\*Llvremove\*O command.
.LI
Remove all but one of
the physical volumes belonging to the volume group with the
\*Lvgreduce\*O command.
.LE 
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To remove volume group \*Lvg02\*O from the system, enter:
.iS
vgremove /dev/vg02
.iE
The definition of \*Lvg02\*O is removed from the system and
the volume group cannot be accessed.
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/vgremove\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands:  \*Llvremove\*O(8), \*Lvgchange\*O(8), \*Lvgreduce\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
