.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vgreduce.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/29 16:50:14 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.TH vgreduce 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lvgreduce\*O \- Reduce a volume group by removing one or more physical volumes from it
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/vgreduce \*VVolumeGroupName\*O \*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O \&...
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "vgreduce command"
The
\*Lvgreduce\*O command removes the physical volume(s) specified with the
\*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O parameter from
\*VVolumeGroupName\*O.
.PP
All but one physical volume can be removed.
The last physical volume must remain in the volume
group so that the logical volume driver can continue to
operate.  The last physical volume in the volume group is
removed by the \*Lvgremove\*O command.
.PP
All logical volumes residing on the physical volume(s) represented by the
\*VPhysicalVolumePath\*O parameter must be removed by executing the
\*Llvremove\*O command before executing the
\*Lvgreduce\*O command.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To remove physical volume hdisk1 from volume group \*Lvg01\*O, enter:
.iS
vgreduce  /dev/vg01  /dev/hdisk1
.iE
The physical volume hdisk1 no longer belongs to volume group \*Lvg01\*O.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding an Environment Note example.
.PP
To remove physical volume rz1c from volume group \*Lvg01\*O,
enter:
.iS
vgreduce  /dev/vg01  /dev/rz1c
.iE
The physical volume rz1c no longer belongs to volume group
\*Lvg01\*O.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/vgreduce\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands:  \*Llvremove\*O(8), \*Lvgchange\*O(8), \*Lvgcreate\*O(8),
\*Lvgdisplay\*O(8), \*Lvgextend\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
