.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vipw.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 12:45:23 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\" 
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.TH vipw 8 "" "" "" "OSF_Security_Related"
.SH NAME
\*Lvipw\*O \- Edits the \*L/etc/passwd\*O file
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/usr/sbin/vipw
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "vipw command"
.iX "editing" "password file"
.iX "password file"
.iX "files" "password"
.PP 
You use the \*Lvipw\*O command to
edit the \*L/etc/passwd\*O file with the editor defined in the
\*LEDITOR\*O environment variable.  If the variable is not set, the
default editor is \*Lvi\*O.
.PP 
The \*Lvipw\*O command performs basic consistency checks on the edited file.
If a hashed indexed \*Lpasswd\*O existed previously, the \*Lvipw\*O
command uses the \*Lmkpasswd\*O command to create recreate it.
.PP 
The command must not be used on systems that use extended
security attributes since it cannot set or change them.
You must
be \*Lroot\*O
to run this command.
Only \*Lroot\*O and security
administrators should have execute access to this command.
.PP 
Since the \*Lvipw\*O command cannot effectively change all the attributes of 
users, it should not be used in a secure environment.
.PP
The \*Lvipw\*O command accesses the following files, and
requires the listed
permissions:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
cfR  lfR .
_
.sp 4p
Permissions@File
.sp 4p
_
.sp 6p
rw@\*L/etc/passwd\*O
.sp
rw@\*L/etc/passwd.pag\*O
.sp
rw@\*L/etc/passwd.dir\*O
.sp
rw@\*L/etc/ptmp\*O
.sp
rw@\*L/etc/ptmp.pag\*O
.sp
rw@\*L/etc/ptmp.dir\*O
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP 
To edit the \*L/etc/passwd\*O file, type the following command
and add the required line entry:
.iS
vipw
.iE
.\" When the file appears, you can edit it using the editor defined in the
.\" \*LEDITOR\*O environment variable, or if that variable is not set, the
.\" \*Lvi\*O editor.
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/vipw\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lpasswd\*O(1), \*Lpasswd\*O(4), \*Ladduser\*O(8), \*Lmkpasswd\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
