.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vncheck.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/22 20:04:11 $
.\"
.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vncheck.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/22 20:04:11 $
.\"
.TH vncheck 8
.SH NAME
\*Lvncheck\*O \- generates names from i-numbers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.iX  "vncheck command"
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/vncheck\*O [\*L\-i\*O \*Vnumbers\*O] [\*L\-asm\*O] \*Vdomain#set\*O \&...
.sE
.sp 8p
.VL 8m
.LI "\*Vdomain#set\*O"
Specifies one or more filesets.  You must specify a fileset by entering the
name of the file domain, a pound-sign (#) character, and the name of the
fileset.
.LE
.SH FLAGS
.VL 8m
.LI "\*L\-a\*O"
Allows printing of the names \*L.\*O (dot) and \*L..\*O (dot dot), which
are ordinarily suppressed.
.LI "\*L\-i\*O \*Vnumbers\*O"
Reduces the report to only those files with i-numbers \*Vnumbers\*O.
.LI "\*L\-m\*O"
Allows printing of the mode, UID, and GID of files.  This flag
takes effect only if either the \*L\-i\*O or the \*L\-s\*O
flag is also specified on the command line.
.LI "\*L\-s\*O"
Reduces the report to special files and files with set-user-ID mode.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "File listing"
.iX "i-number"
.PP
The \*Lvncheck\*O command with no options generates a
list of all files on every specified fileset.  The list includes the
path name and the corresponding i-number of each file.
A \*L/.\*O (slash dot) follows the name of each directory file.
.PP
.iX "Security violations"
Issuing the command with the \*L\-i\*O \*Vnumbers\*O
option reduces the report to only those files with i-numbers \*Vnumbers\*O.
Issuing the command with the \*L\-a\*O option
allows for the printing of the names \*L\&.\*O (dot) and
\*L\&.\&.\*O (dot dot) which are ordinarily suppressed.
Issuing the command with the \*L\-s\*O option reduces the report to
special files and files with set-user-ID mode.  This flag
is intended to discover concealed violations of security policy.
.PP
Since the report is generated in an order that is not particularly
useful, you can sort it prior to reading it.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.iX "Fileset" "diagnosing structure of"
.iX "File structure"
.iX "Parentless files"
.iX "Finding parentless files"
.iX "Loops"
.iX "Finding loops"
.PP
When the fileset structure is improper,
\*L??\*O (question mark question mark) denotes the parent of
a parentless file.  A path name beginning with \*L\&...\*O
(dot dot dot) denotes a loop.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/vncheck\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
\*Lsort\*O(1), \*Lvquot\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
