.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vquotacheck.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/20 00:23:21 $
.\"
.TH vquotacheck 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lvquotacheck\*O \- Checks fileset quota consistency
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "vquotacheck utility"
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/vquotacheck\*O [\*L\-gruv\*O] \*Vfileset\*O \&...
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/vquotacheck\*O \*L\-a\*O [\*L\-gruv\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L\-a\*O"
Checks all filesets identified in \*L/etc/fstab\*O as read/write
with disk quotas.
.LI "\*L\-g\*O"
Checks group quotas only.
.LI "\*L\-r\*O"
Checks each file twice, ensuring that disk quotas include the
quota files themselves, which can be lengthened during the first
quota check.
.LI "\*L\-u\*O"
Checks user quotas only.
.LI "\*L\-v\*O"
Reports discrepancies between the calculated and recorded disk quotas.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "vquotacheck command"
.iX "checking fileset quota consistency"
.iX "file system" "quota consistency, checking"
.iX "quota" "fileset, checking"
The \*Lvquotacheck\*O command examines each specified fileset,
builds a table of current disk usage,
and compares this table against that stored
in the disk quota file for the fileset.
If any inconsistencies are detected, both the
quota file and the current system copy of the
incorrect quotas are updated. Each fileset must be mounted with quotas
enabled.
.PP
The filesets checked should be quiescent
while the \*Lvquotacheck\*O command
is running.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Added this per PRS
The \*Lvquotacheck\*O
command only checks file systems that have the \*Luserquota\*O or
\*Lgroupquota\*O option specified in the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP
By default both user and group quotas listed in the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file
are checked.
Use the \*L\-g\*O flag to specify that only group quotas be checked;
use the \*L\-u\*O flag to specify that only user quotas be checked.
.PP
The \*Lvquotacheck\*O command does not display activity information
while checking filesets. Use the \*L\-v\*O flag
to report inconsistencies found or procedures performed by the
\*Lvquotacheck\*O command.
.SH RESTRICTION
.PP
You must have root-user privilege to use the \*Lvquotacheck\*O command.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/vquotacheck\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "[\*Vfileset_root\*O]\*L/quota.user\*O"
Contains user quotas for \*Vfileset\*O
.LI "[\*Vfileset_root\*O]\*L/quota.group\*O"
Contains group quotas for \*Vfileset\*O
.LI "\*L/etc/fstab\*O"
Contains fileset names and locations
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lvedquota\*O(8), \*Lvquota\*O(1), \*Lvquotaon\*O(8),
\*Lvrepquota\*O(8), \*Lquotactl\*O(2), \*Lfstab\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
