.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vquotaon.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 22:15:53 $
.\"
.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vquotaon.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 22:15:53 $
.\"
.TH vquotaon 8
.SH NAME
\*Lvquotaon\*O, \*Lvquotaoff\*O \- turns quota enforcement on or off
.SH SYNOPSIS
.iX  "vquotaon command"
.iX  "vquotaoff command"
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/vquotaon\*O [\*L\-guv\*O] \*Vsetname\*O \&...
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/vquotaon\*O \*L\-a\*O [\*L\-guv\*O]
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/vquotaoff\*O [\*L\-guv\*O] \*Vsetname\*O \&...
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/vquotaoff\*O \*L\-a\*O [\*L\-guv\*O]
.sE
.sp 8p
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vsetname\*O"
Specifies one or more filesets.  You can specify a fileset by using either the
root directory (\*L/usr/staff/myfileset\*O) or \*Vdomain#set\*O.
.LE
.SH FLAGS
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-a\*O"
Turns on (with \*Lvquotaon\*O) or turns off (with \*Lvquotaoff\*O)
quotas for all filesets identified in
\*L/etc/fstab\*O as read/write with quotas.
.LI "\*L\-g\*O"
.iX "Quota" "turning on and off"
Turns on or off group quotas only.
.LI "\*L\-u\*O"
Turns on or off user quotas only.
.LI "\*L\-v\*O"
.iX "Message" "fileset quota"
Prints a message for each fileset whose quotas are turned on
or off.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lvquotaon\*O command enables disk quota enforcement
on one or more set names.  The filesets specified must
have entries in \*L/etc/fstab\*O and be mounted at the time.
.PP
The \*Lvquotaoff\*O command disables disk quota enforcement on the
specified set names.
.PP
AdvFS always maintains user and group file and block usage in the quota
files (quota.user and quota.group).  The \*Lvquotaon\*O and
\*Lvquotaoff\*O commands are used to enable or disable user and group
quotas which have been established using the \*Lvedquota\*O command.
Fileset quotas can be set or cleared using the \*Lchfsets\*O command.
.PP
The \*Lvquotaon\*O and \*Lvquotaoff\*O commands must be run by a user
with superuser authority.
.PP
These commands expect each fileset to have quota files named
\*Lquota.user\*O and \*Lquota.group\*O in the root directory.
(These default file locations may be overridden in \*L/etc/fstab\*O.)
.PP
By default both user and group quotas are affected by the \*Lvquotaon\*O
and \*Lvquotaoff\*O commands.
The \*L\-g\*O flag specifies that only group quotas should be affected;
the \*L\-u\*O flag specifies that only user quotas should be affected.
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/vquotaon\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/vquotaoff\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "[\*Vsetname_root\*O]\*L/quota.user\*O"
Contains user quotas for filesets
.LI "[\*Vsetname_root\*O]\*L/quota.group\*O"
Contains group quotas for filesets
.LI "\*L/etc/fstab\*O"
Contains fileset names and locations
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lchfsets\*O(8), \*Lshowfsets\*O(8),
\*Lvedquota\*O(8), \*Lvquota\*O(1), \*Lvquotacheck\*O(8),
\*Lvrepquota\*O(8), \*Lquotactl\*O(2), \*Lfstab\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
