.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vquot.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 00:23:22 $
.\"
.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vquot.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 00:23:22 $
.\" 
.TH vquot 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lvquot\*O \- summarizes fileset ownership
.SH SYNOPSIS
.iX  "vquot command"
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/vquot\*O [\*L\-cfn\*O] [\*Vdomain#set\*O \&...]
.sE
.sp 8p
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vdomain#set\*O"
Specifies one or more filesets.  Specify a fileset by entering the
name of the file domain, a pound-sign (#) character, and the name of the
fileset.
.LE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-c\*O"
.iX "Displaying" "file size"
.iX "File size"
Displays three columns giving file size in blocks, the number of files of that
size, and cumulative total of blocks in a file of that size or smaller.
.LI "\*L\-f\*O"
Displays amount of space used and a count of number of files
owned by each user.
.LI "\*L\-n\c\*O"
.iX "File owner"
.iX "Displaying" "file owner"
Causes the following pipeline to display a list of all files and their owners:
.oS

# vncheck \*Vdomain#set\*O | sort +0n | vquot \-n \*Vdomain#set\*O
.oE
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lvquot\*O command displays the number of blocks in the fileset
that are currently owned by each user.  If you do not specify a fileset, the
\*Lvquot\*O command processes all filesets of type \*Lro\*O, \*Lrw\*O, or
\*Lrq\*O that are listed in the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file.
.SH RESTRICTION
.PP
You must have root-user privilege to access this command.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
The following command displays the number of
blocks owned by each user:
.oS

# vquot usr#usr

usr#usr:
308522  bin
93881   smith
62270   root
 4335   #553
 3615   bold
   24   daemon
   15   steven
   14   jones
   14   walter
    6   adm
    3   north

.oE
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/vquot\*O"
Command path
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O"
Contains user information
.LI "\*L/etc/fstab\*O"
Lists filesets
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lls\*O(1), \*Ldu\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
