.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vrepquota.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/16 20:05:04 $
.\"
.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vrepquota.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/16 20:05:04 $
.\"
.TH vrepquota 8
.SH NAME
\*Lvrepquota\*O \- summarizes fileset quotas
.SH SYNOPSIS
.iX  "vrepquota command"
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/vrepquota\*O [\*L-guv\*O] \*Vsetname\*O \&...
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/vrepquota\*O \*L-a\*O [\*L-guv\*O]
.sE
.sp 8p
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vsetname\*O"
Specifies one or more filesets.  You can specify a fileset by using either the
root directory (\*L/usr/staff/myfileset\*O) or \*Vdomain#set\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Quota" "summary report"
.iX "Disk usage summary"
.iX "Displaying" "disk usage"
.PP
The \*Lvrepquota\*O command prints a summary of the disk usage and quotas
for the specified set names; to appear in the summary, each fileset
must have an entry in the \*L/etc/fstab\*O file.  By default, both user and
group quota are displayed (if they exist).
.PP
For each user or group, the current
number of files and amount of space (in kilobytes) is
printed, as well as any quotas created with \*Lvedquota\*O.
.PP
\*Lvrepquota\*O must be run by a user
with superuser authority.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Prints quota for all the filesets listed in \*L/etc/fstab\*O.
.LI "\*L-g\*O"
Prints group quotas only.
.LI "\*L-u\*O"
Prints user quotas only.
.LI "\*L-v\*O"
Prints a header line before the information for each fileset.
.LE
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/vrepquota\*O"
Specifies the command path
.LI "[\*Vsetname_root\*O]\*L/quota.user\*O"
Contains user quotas for filesets
.LI "[\*Vsetname_root\*O]\*L/quota.group\*O"
Contains group quotas for filesets
.LI "\*L/etc/fstab\*O"
Contains fileset names and locations
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lvedquota\*O(8), \*Lfsck\*O(8), \*Lvquota\*O(1),
\*Lquotacheck\*O(8), \*Lvquotaon\*O(8), \*Lquotactl\*O(2), \*Lfstab\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
