.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vrestore.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/16 20:05:16 $
.\"
.TH vrestore 8
.SH NAME
\*Lvrestore\*O \- restores files from devices written with the \*Lvdump\*O command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX  "vrestore command"
.sS
\*L/sbin/vrestore \-h\*O
.nL
\*L/sbin/vrestore \-V\*O
.nL
\*L/sbin/vrestore \-t\*O [\*L\-f\*O \*Vdevice\*O]
.nL
\*L/sbin/vrestore \-l\*O [\*L\-f\*O \*Vdevice\*O]
.nL
\*L/sbin/vrestore \-i\*O [\*L\-mqv\*O] [\*L\-f\*O \*Vdevice\*O]
[\*L\-D\*O \*Vpath\*O] [\*L\-o\*O \*Vopt\*O]
.nL
\*L/sbin/vrestore \-x\*O [\*L\-mqv\*O] [\*L\-f\*O \*Vdevice\*O] [\*L\-D\*O
\*Vpath\*O] [\*L\-o\*O \*Vopt\*O] [\*Vfile \&.\&.\&.\*O]
.sE
.SH "FLAGS"
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-h\*O"
Displays usage help for \*Lvrestore\*O.
.LI "\*L\-V\*O"
Displays the current \*Lvrestore\*O version.
.LI "\*L\-t\*O"
.iX "Restore" "listing files"
Lists the names and size (in bytes) of all files contained on the storage
device.
.LI "\*L\-l\*O"
.iX "Restore" "saveset structure"
.iX "Saveset structure"
.iX "Displaying" "saveset structure"
Lists the saveset structure.
.LI "\*L\-i\*O"
.iX "Restore" "interactive"
.iX "Interactive restore"
Permits interactive restoration of files read from the
specified device.  After reading directory information from the
device, the \*Lvrestore\*O command provides a
shell-like interface that allows you to select the files you want to
restore.  Some of the interactive commands require as an \*Varg\*O parameter
a subdirectory or file name for an argument.  For others, when the \*Varg\*O
parameter is unspecified, the default directory is the current one.  The
interactive commands are explained in the following list:
.VL 6m
.LI "\*Ladd\*O \*Varg\*O"
Adds the files in the saveset specified by
\*Varg\*O to the list of files to be restored from the device.
Files on the list of files to be restored are prepended with the \*L*\*O
(asterisk) character when they are listed with the \*Lls\*O interactive command.
.LI "\*Lcd\*O [\*Varg\*O]"
Changes the current saveset directory to the directory specified with
the \*Varg\*O parameter.
.LI "\*Ldelete\*O \*Varg\*O"
Deletes all files and their subdirectories specified by
the \*Varg\*O parameter from the list of files to be restored
from the device.
.sp
An expedient way to select wanted files from any directory whose files
are stored on the device is to add the directory to the list of files to be
restored and then delete the ones that are not wanted.
.LI "\*Lextract\*O or \*Lrestore\*O"
Restores all files added to the list of files to be restored to the
previously specified destination.
.LI "\*Lhelp\*O"
.iX "Help" "on interactive restore"
Displays help information for the interactive commands.
.LI "\*Lls\*O [\*Varg\*O]"
Lists files in the current saveset directory or the directory specified
with the \*Varg\*O parameter.  Directory entries are appended with a
\*L/\*O (slash) character.  Entries that have been marked to be restored
are prepended with an \*L*\*O (asterisk) character.
.LI "\*Lpwd\*O"
Prints the path name of the current saveset directory to the standard output
device.
.LI "\*Lquit\*O or \*Lexit\*O"
.iX "Restore" "quitting"
.iX "Quitting a restore"
Exits immediately, even when the files on the list of files to restored have
not been read.
.LI "\*Lverbose\*O"
Toggles the \*L\-v\*O modifier (see the \*L\-v\*O flag). The name of each
file restored from the device is written to the standard output device.
.LI "\*L?\*O"
Displays help information for the interactive commands.
.LE
.LI "\*L\-x\*O"
Extracts a specific file or files from the saveset device instead of
using the \*Ladd\*O command in interactive mode.  The \*\-x\*O flag can
precede any other options, but the \*Vfile \&.\&.\&.\*O list must be the last
item on the command line.
.sp
For example, to restore the files \*Lfile1\*O and \*Lfile2\*O from the
\*L/dev/rmt0h\*O save device to the \*L/mnt\*O directory, enter:
.oS
\*L# vrestore -x -D /mnt file1 file2
.oE
.\" .LI "\*L\-e\*O"
.\" Does not restore files that are unchanged. This reduces the amount of time
.\" required to restore files from the saveset.
.LI "\*L\-m\*O"
Does not preserve the owner, group, or modes of each file from the device.
.\" .LI "\*L\-n\*O"
.\" Prompts when an existing file is newer than the file you are restoring.
.LI "\*L\-q\*O"
.iX "Errors" "during restore"
Prints only error messages; does not print information messages.
.LI "\*L\-v\*O"
Writes the name of each file read from the device to the standard output
device.  Without this flag the \*Lvrestore\*O command does not notify you
about progress on reading from the storage device.
.LI "\*L\-f\*O \*Vdevice\*O"
.iX "Archive device"
.iX "Restore" "archive device"
When an argument follows the \*L\-f\*O flag, it specifies the
name of the archive device, replacing the default device
\*L/dev/rmt0h\*O.
.LI "\*L\-D\*O \*Vpath\*O"
.iX "Restore" "destination"
Specifies the destination path of where to restore the files. Without the
\*L\-D\*O flag, the files are restored to the current directory.
.LI "\*L\-o\*O \*Vopt\*O"
Specifies the action to take when a file already exists. The options are:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lyes\*O"
.iX "Restore" "overwriting files during"
.iX "Overwriting files during restore"
Overwrites existing files without any query. The default is \*Lyes\*O.
.LI "\*Lno\*O"
Does not overwrite existing files.
.LI "\*Lask\*O"
Asks whether to overwrite an existing file.
.LE
.LI "\*Vfile \&.\&.\&.\*O"
Specifies the file or files to restore when using the \*L\-x\*O flag.  All
other flags must precede any file names on the command line.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lvrestore\*O command restores data from a file, a pipe, magnetic
devices, or disks.  The data, previously written with the \*Lvdump\*O command,
is restored to the specified directory. The default dump media from
which files are read is \*L/dev/rmt0h\*O.  Using the \*L-f\*O flag you can
specify another dump device or dump image file.
.PP
When you specify a directory name by using the \*L-D\*O option, the
\*Lvrestore\*O command restores all the files to the specified directory.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
You must have write access to the directory you restore to.  Root-user
privilege allows you to restore to any directory that has write privileges.
.PP
This command does not restore quota files and displays a warning message
when you attempt to recover a quota file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
When the restore saveset device is
the character \*L\-\*O (dash), the \*Lvrestore\*O command reads from
standard input.  Thus, the \*Lvdump\*O and \*Lvrestore\*O commands may be
used in a pipeline expression to copy
filesets.  The following are typical commands, both equivalent:
.oS

\*L# vdump \-0 \-f \- /usr | (cd /mnt; vrestore \-x \-f \-)\*O
\*L# vdump \-0f \- /usr | vrestore \-xf \- \-D /mnt\*O
.oE
.cS
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.iX "Errors" "during restore"
.PP
Detects bad flag characters.
.PP
Detects read errors.  When the \*L-y\*O modifier flag has been
specified, or you respond with \*Ly\*O, the process
attempts to continue the \*Lvrestore\*O operation.
.PP
When a previous \*Lvdump\*O writes over more than one
storage device, the \*Lvrestore\*O command asks you to change
a filled volume.
.PP
When the \*L-x\*O or \*L-i\*O function flag has been specified, the
\*Lvrestore\*O command also asks what volume you wish to mount.
.PP
A fast way to read a few files is to first mount the last volume, and then
mount other previous volumes working toward the first volume.
.PP
There are numerous consistency checks that can be listed by the
\*Lvrestore\*O command.  Most checks are self-explanatory.
.SS "Common Errors"
Common errors are listed as follows:
.VL
.LI "\*LConverting to new filesystem format.\*O"
A device previously written from an old fileset has been loaded.  On
reading, the old fileset was automatically converted to a new
filesystem format.
.LI "\*Vfile\*L: not found on device\*O"
One or more file names specified by the \*Vfile \&.\&.\&.\*O parameter was
listed in the device directory, but was not found on the device.  This
is caused by storage device read errors when searching for a named
file, or when a previously written device was created on an
active fileset.
.LI "\*Lexpected next file\*O \*Vinumber\*L, got \*Vinumber\*O"
A file that was not listed in the directory was detected.  This can
occur when using a device previously created on an active
fileset.
.LI "\*LIncremental device too low\*O"
When doing incremental restore, a device that was written before the
previous incremental device, or one that has too low an
incremental level has been loaded.
.LI "\*LIncremental device too high\*O"
When performing an incremental \*Lvrestore\*O operation, a storage process
does not begin its coverage where the previous incremental device left
off, or one that has too high an incremental level has been loaded.
.LI "\*LDevice read error while restoring < \*Vfilename\*O >."
.LI "\*LDevice read error while skipping over inode < \*Vinumber\*O >"
.LI "\*LDevice read error while trying to resynchronize\*O"
A device read error has occurred.  When a filename is specified, its
contents are probably partially wrong.  When an inode is being skipped,
or the device is trying to resynchronize, no files read from device have
been corrupted although some files may not be found on the device.
.LI "\*Lresync vrestore, skipped < \*Vnum\*O > blocks"
After a device read error, the \*Lvrestore\*O command may have to
resynchronize itself.  This message lists the number of blocks that were
skipped.
.cE
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/sbin/vrestore\*O"
The location of the executable file for the \*Lvrestore\*O command with static
libraries.
.LI "\*L/dev/rmt0h\*O"
The default storage device.
.iX "Default" "storage device"
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lvdump\*O(8), \*Lmount\*O(8), \*Lumount\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
