.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: writesrv.8,v $ $Revision: 1.1.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/02 21:35:58 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.1
.\" 
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" build rmifdef
.TH writesrv 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lwritesrv\*O \- Lets users send messages to and receive messages from a remote system.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "writesrv"
.iX "messages" "remote system"
.iX "remote system" "messages"
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/writesrv\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lwritesrv\*O daemon allows users to send messages to users on a
remote system, and to receive responses from users on a remote system
with the \*Lwrite\*O command.
.PP
The \*Lwritesrv\*O command receives incoming requests from a
\*Lwrite\*O command and creates a server process to handle the
request.
This server process communicates with the client process (\*Lwrite\*O)
and provides whatever services are requested.
.PP
To perform these services, the \*Lwritesrv\*O daemon creates a socket
on the port defined in the \*L/etc/services\*O file.
All requests for service go as messages to this socket.
.PP
STARTING AND STOPPING \*Lwritesrv\*O.
.PP
You can cause the \*Lwritesrv\*O daemon to be started during system boot
with \*L/sbin/init.d/write\*O. The \*Lwritesrv\*O daemon starts
automatically if the
\*LWRITESRV\*O variable is defined properly in \*L/etc/re.config\*O. To
start \*Lwritesrv\*O automatically during system boot, do the following
as superuser.
.oS
\*L rcmgr set WRITESRV   yes\*O
.oE
.PP
To prevent \*Lwritesrv\*O from starting automatically during system
boot, do the following as superuser:
.oS
\*L rcmgr set WRITESRV   no\*O
.oE
.PP
By default, \*Lwritesrv\*O is not set and therefore \*L/usr/sbin/writesrv\*O does not run.
.PP
You can start the \*Lwritesrv\*O daemon manually as follows:
.oS
\*L /sbin/init.d/write   start\*O
.oE
.PP
You can stop \*Lwritesrv\*O manually as follows:
.oS
\*L /sbin/init.d/write   stop\*O
.oE
.SH NOTES
.PP
If the \*Lwritesrv\*O daemon terminates abnormally (that is, for a
system crash, a power failure, or the \*Lkill -9\*O command), someone
must manually clean out the \*L/usr/spool/writesrv\*O directory to
remove any files left behind.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lwrite\*O(1)
.PP
Files: \*Lservices\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
