.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: xntpd.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/10 17:41:37 $
.\"
.\"''' $Header
.\"'''
.\".de Sh
.\".br
.\".ne 5
.\".PP
.\" \f3\\$1\f1
.\".PP
.\"..
.\".de Sp
.\".if t .sp .5v
.\".if n .sp
.\"..
.\".de Ip
.\".br
.\".ie \\n.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.\".el .ne 3
.\".IP "\\$1" \\$2
.\"..
.\"'''
.\"'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
.\"'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
.\"'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
.\"'''
.\".tr \(bs-|\(bv\*(Tr
.\".ie n \{\
.\".ds -- \(bs-
.\".if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(bs\h'-12u'\(bs\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.\".if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(bs\h'-12u'\(bs\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.\".ds L" ""
.\".ds R" ""
.\".ds L' '
.\".ds R' '
.\"'br\}
.\".el\{\
.\".ds -- \(em\|
.\".tr \*(Tr
.\".ds L" ``
.\".ds R" ''
.\".ds L' `
.\".ds R' '
.\"'br\}
.\".so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.\".so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.TH xntpd 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lxntpd\*O - Network Time Protocol (NTP) daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "NTP daemon"
.iX "xntpd" "Network Time Protocol daemon"
.iX "time protocol"
.iX "network" "time protocol"
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/xntpd\*O [
\*L -bglsx\*O] [\*L-c \*Vconffile\*O] [\*L-f\*O \*Vdriftfile\*O]
[\*L-r \*Vbroaddelay\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.\".LI "\*L-a\*O"
.\"Runs in \*(lqauthenticate\*(rq mode
.LI "\*L-b\*O"
Listens for broadcast NTP and synchronizes to this if available.
.LI "\*L-g\*O"
Allows
\*Vxntpd\*O
to correct any time difference, including differences greater than 1000
seconds.
.LI "\*L-l\*O"
Limits log messages in syslog.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Prohibits
\*Vxntpd\*O
from changing the system time. This option is used for compatibility with
DECdts.
.LI "\*L-x\*O"
Allows
\*Vxntpd\*O
to set the system time backward using \*Lsettimeofday\*O(2) instead of
\*Ladjtime\*O(2). This is not recommended and might cause system failures.
.LI "\*L-c\*O \*Vconffile\*O"
Specifies an alternate configuration file.
.\".LI "\*L-e\*O \*Vauthdelay\*O"
.\"Specifies the time (in seconds) it takes to compute the NTP encryption field
.\"on this computer.
.LI "\*L-f\*O \*Vdriftfile\*O"
Specifies the location of the drift file.
.\".LI "\*L-k\*O \*Vkeyfile\*O"
.\"Specifies the location of the file which contains the NTP authentication
.\"keys.
.LI "\*L-r\*O \*Vbroaddelay\*O"
Specifies the default round trip delay (in seconds)
to be used when synchronizing to broadcasts.
.\".LI "\*L-t\*O \*Vtrustedkey\*O"
.\"Adds a key number to the trusted key list.
.LE
.\".PP
.\"See the configuration file description for a more complete functional
.\"description of these flags.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\*VXntpd\*O
is a daemon that maintains a system's time\-of\-day in agreement
with Internet standard time servers.
\*VXntpd\*O
is an implementation of the Network Time Protocol (NTP) version
2 standard as defined by RFC 1119, but without authentication. It also retains
compatibility with version 1 servers as defined
by RFC 1059. (This includes servers running the University of Maryland
\*Vntpd .\*O
\*VXntpd\*O
does all computations in fixed point arithmetic and is entirely free of
floating point code.  The computations done in the protocol and clock
adjustment code are carried out with high precision and with attention
to the details which might introduce systematic bias into the integrations,
to try to maintain an accuracy suitable for synchronizing with even the
most precise external time source.
.PP
\*VXntpd\*O
reads its configuration from a file at startup time.  The default configuration
file is
\*V/etc/ntp.conf .\*O
\*VNtpsetup\*O
automatically configures your system to run
\*Vxntpd , \*O
and should be used by all systems that receive time from other NTP servers.
.\".PP
.\"It is also possible to
.\"specify a working, though limited,
.\".I xntpd
.\"configuration entirely on the command line, obviating the need for a
.\"configuration file.  This may be particularly appropriate when xntpd is
.\"to be configured as a broadcast client, with all peers being determined
.\"by listening to broadcasts at run time.  Various internal
\*Vxntpd\*O
can be monitored while the
daemon is running by using either the \*Lntpq\*O(8) or the
\*Lxntpdc\*O(8) program.
.PP
\*VXntpd\*O
includes support for local reference clocks and the Traconex 1010/1020
WWV/H receiver (formerly Precision Time Standard Inc.)
The 1010/1020 is a radio timecode receiver that is synchronized to a
source of standard time, such as the services offered by the NRC in
Canada and NIST in the U.S.  The interface between the computer and
the timecode receiver is device dependent and will vary, but is
often a serial port.
.SH FILES
.PP
.IP /etc/ntp.conf 20
Default name of the configuration file
.IP /etc/ntp.drift 20
Conventional name of the drift file
.\".IP /etc/ntp.keys 20
.\"the conventional name of the key file
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lntp\*O(1), \*Lntp.conf\*O(4), \*Lxntpdc\*O(8), \*Lntpq\*O(8), \*Lntpdate\*O(8)
.PP
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
.\".SH HISTORY
.\".PP
.\"Written by Dennis Ferguson at the University of Toronto.
.\".SH BUGS
.\".PP
.\".I Xntpd
.\"has gotten rather fat.  While not huge, it has gotten larger
.\"than might be desireable for an elevated\-priority daemon running on a
.\"workstation, particularly since many of the fancy features which
.\"consume the space were designed more with a busy primary server, rather
.\"than a high stratum workstation, in mind.  This will eventually be corrected
.\"either by adopting the
.\".I ntpd
.\"daemon as an alternative when it becomes able to match
.\".IR xntpd 's
.\"performance, or if not than by producing a stripped down version of
.\".I xntpd
.\"specifically for workstation use.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
