.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: xntpdc.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/07/22 13:27:46 $
.\" 
.TH xntpdc 8
.SH NAME
.PP
xntpdc \- monitor program for the Network Time Protocol daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/bin/xntpdc\*O [\*L-ilnps\*O] [\*L-c\*O \*Vcommand\*O] [\*Vhost1 host2 ...\*O]
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L-i\*O"
Forces \*Lxntpdc\*O to operate in interactive mode.  Prompts will be written to
the standard output and commands read from the standard input.
.LI "\*L-l\*O
Obtains a list of peers which are known to the server(s).  This switch
is equivalent to \*L-c listpeers\*O.
.LI "\*L-n\*O
Outputs all host addresses in dotted decimal notation rather than
converting to the canonical host names.
.LI "\*L-p\*O
Prints a list of the peers known to the server as well as a summary
of their state.  This is equivalent to \*L-c peers\*O.
.LI "\*L-s\*O
Prints a list of the peers known to the server as well as a summary
of their state, but in a slightly different format than the
\*L-p\*O option. This is equivalent to \*L-c dmpeers\*O.
.LI "\*L-c\*O \*Vcommand\*O"
Interprets \*Vcommand\*O as an interactive format command
and adds it to the list of commands to be executed on the specified
host(s).  Multiple \*L-c\*O options may be given.
.LE
.PP
Specifying a command
line option other than \*L-i\*O or \*L-n\*O
sends the specified query (queries) to the indicated
host(s) immediately; if no host is specified, localhost is the default.
Otherwise, \*Lxntpdc\*O will attempt to read interactive format commands
from the standard input.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\*Lxntpdc\*O is used to monitor the \*Lxntpd\*O(8)
daemon, and provides information similar to \*Lntpq\*O; \*Lntpq\*O is
recommended.
.\" and to request changes in that state.
The
program may be run either in interactive mode or controlled using
command line arguments.  Extensive state and statistics information is
available through the \*Lxntpdc\*O interface.
.\" Removed per Terry Linsey's comments 8/28/91
.\"In addition, nearly all the
.\"configuration options which can be specified at start up using
.\"the \*Lxntpd\*O configuration file may also be specified at run time using
.\"Lxntpdc\*O.
.PP
If one or more request options is included on the command line when
\*Lxntpdc\*O
is executed, each of the requests will be sent to the NTP servers running
on each of the hosts given as command line arguments, or on
\*Vlocalhost\*O by default.  If no request options are given,
\*Lxntpdc\*O
will attempt to read commands from the standard input and execute these
on the NTP server running on the first host given on the command line, again
defaulting to \*Vlocalhost\*O when no other host is specified.
\*Lxntpdc\*O will prompt for commands if the standard input is a terminal
device.
.PP
\*Lxntpdc\*O uses NTP mode 7 packets to communicate with the NTP server, and
hence can be used to query any compatible server on the network which permits
it.  Note: Since NTP uses the UDP protocol, this communication will be
somewhat unreliable, especially over large network topologies.
\*LXntpdc\*O
makes no attempt to retransmit requests, and will time out if
the remote host is not heard from within a suitable time.
.SH COMMANDS
.PP
.SS Interactive Commands
.PP
Interactive format commands consist of a keyword followed by zero
or more arguments.  Only enough characters of the full keyword to
uniquely identify the command need be typed.  The output of a command
is normally sent to the standard output, but optionally the output of
individual commands may be sent to a file by appending a \*L>\*O,
followed by a file name, to the command line.
.PP
A number of interactive format commands are executed entirely within the
\*Lxntpdc\*O
program itself and do not result in NTP mode 7 requests being sent
to a server.  These are described following.
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L?\*O [\*Vcommand_keyword\*O]"
A "\*L?\*O" by itself will print a list of all the command keywords
known to this incarnation of
\*Lxntpdc\*O.
A "\*L?\*O" followed by a command keyword will print function and
usage information about the command.
.\"This command is probably a better
.\"source of information about \*Lxntpdc\*O than this reference page.
.LI "\*Lhelp\*O [\*Vcommand_keyword\*O]"
A synonym for the \*L?\*O command.
.LI "\*Ltimeout\*O \*Vmilliseconds\*O"
Specifies a time out period for responses to server queries.  The default
is about 8000 milliseconds.
.\".PP
.\".B delay
.\".I milliseconds
.\".PP
.\"Specify a time interval to be added to timestamps included in requests
.\"which require authentication.  This is used to enable (unreliable) server
.\"reconfiguration over long delay network paths or between machines whose
.\"clocks are unsynchronized.
.LI "\*Lhost\*O [\*Vhostname\*O]"
Sets the host to which future queries will be sent.
\*VHostname\*O may be either a host name or a numeric address. If
\*Vhostname\*O is not specified, the current hostname is used.
.\".PP
.\".B poll
.\"[
.\".I #
.\"] [
.\".B verbose
.\"]
.\".PP
.\"Poll the current server in client mode.  The first argument is the
.\"number of times to poll (default is 1) while the second argument may
.\"be given to obtain a more detailed output of the results.  This command
.\"is currently just wishful thinking.
.\".PP
.\".B keyid
.\".I #
.\".PP
.\"This command allows the specification of a key number to be used to
.\"authenticate configuration requests.  This must correspond to the
.\"key number the server has been configured to use for this purpose.
.\".PP
.\".B passwd
.\".PP
.\"This command prompts you to type in a password (which will not be
.\"echoed) which will be used to authenticate configuration requests.  The
.\"password must correspond to the key configured for use by the NTP
.\"server for this purpose if such requests are to be successful.
.LI "\*Lhostnames yes|no\*O"
If \*Lyes\*O is specified, prints host names in information
displays.  If \*Lno\*O is given, prints numeric addresses
instead.  The default is \*Lyes\*O unless modified using the command
line \*L-n\*O option.
.LI "\*Lquit\*O
Exits \*Lxntpdc\*O.
.LE
.SS Query Commands
.PP
Query commands result in NTP mode 7 packets containing requests for
information being sent to the server.
.VL
.LI "\*Llistpeers\*O"
Obtains and prints a brief list of the peers for which the
server is maintaining state.  These should include all configured
peer associations as well as those peers whose stratum is such that
they are considered by the server to be possible future synchronization
candidates.
.LI "\*Lpeers\*O"
Obtains a list of peers for which the server is maintaining state, along
with a summary of that state.  Summary information includes the address
of the remote peer, the local interface address (0.0.0.0 if a local address
has yet to be determined), the stratum of the remote peer (a stratum of
16 indicates the remote peer is unsynchronized), the polling interval,
in seconds, the reachability
register, in octal, and the current estimated delay, offset and dispersion
of the peer, all in seconds.  In addition, the character in the left
margin indicates the current mode for this peer entry.  A
\*L+\*O denotes symmetric active, a \*L-\*O indicates symmetric
passive, a \*L=\*O means the remote server is being polled in
client mode, a \*L^\*O indicates that the server is broadcasting
to this address, a \*L~\*O denotes that the remote peer is sending
broadcasts and a \*L*\*O marks the peer the server is currently
synchronizing to.
.LI "\*Ldmpeers\*O"
A slightly different peer summary list.  Identical to the output of the
\*Lpeers\*O command except for the character in the leftmost column.
Characters only appear beside peers which were included in the final stage of
the clock selection algorithm.  A \*L.\*O indicates that this
peer was cast off in the falseticker detection, while a \*L+\*O
indicates that the peer made it through.  A \*L*\*O denotes the
peer the server is currently synchronizing with.
.LI "\*Lshowpeer\*O \*Vpeer_address\*O [\*Vaddr2\*O] [\*Vaddr3\*O] [\*Vaddr4\*O]"
Shows a detailed display of the current peer variables for one or more
peers.  Most of these values are described in the NTP Version 2
specification.
.LI "\*Lpstats\*O \*Vpeer_address\*O [\*Vaddr2\*O] [\*Vaddr3\*O] [\*Vaddr4\*O]"
Shows per\-peer statistic counters associated with the specified peer(s).
.LI "\*Lloopinfo\*O [\*Loneline|multiline\*O]"
Prints the values of selected loop filter variables.  The loop filter is
the part of NTP which deals with adjusting the local system clock.  The
\*Loffset\*O is the last offset given to the loop filter by the
packet processing code.  The \*Lfrequency\*O is actually the
frequency error, or drift, of your system's clock in the units NTP
uses for internal computations.  Dividing this number by 4096 should
give you the actual drift rate.  The \*Lcompliance\*O is actually
a long term average offset and is used by NTP to control the gain of
the loop filter.  The \*Ltimer\*O value is the number of seconds
which have elapsed since a new sample offset was given to the loop
filter.  The \*Loneline\*O and \*Lmultiline\*O options specify
the format in which this information is to be printed.  \*Lmultiline\*O
is the default.
.LI "\*Lsysinfo\*O"
Prints a variety of system state variables, i.e. state related to the
local server.  Many of these values are described in the NTP Version 2
specification, RFC 1119.
.LI "\*Lsysstats\*O"
Prints a number of stat counters maintained in the protocol module.
.LI "\*Lmemstats\*O"
Prints a number of counters related to the peer memory allocation
code.
.LI "\*Liostats\*O"
Prints counters maintained in the input\-output module.
.LI "\*Ltimerstats\*O"
Prints counters maintained in the timer/event queue support code.
.\".LI "\*Lreslist\*O"
.\"Obtains and prints the server's restriction list.  This list is (usually)
.\"printed in sorted order and may help to understand how the restrictions
.\"are applied.
.\".LI "\*Lmonlist\*O"
.\"Obtains and prints traffic counts collected and maintained by the
.\"monitor facility.
.LI "\*Lclockstat\*O \*Vclock_peer_address\*O [\*Vaddr2\*O] [\*Vaddr3\*O] [\*Vaddr4\*O]"
Obtains and prints information concerning a peer clock.  The values
obtained provide information on the setting of fudge factors and
other clock performance information.
.LI "\*Lclkbug\*O \*Vclock_peer_address\*O [\*Vaddr2\*O] [\*Vaddr3\*O] [\*Vaddr4\*O]"
Obtains debugging information for a clock peer.  This information is
provided only by some clock drivers and is mostly undecodable without
a copy of the driver source in hand.
.LE
.\".SH RUNTIME CONFIGURATION REQUESTS
.\".PP
.\"All requests which cause state changes in the server are authenticated
.\"by the server using a configured NTP key (the facility can also be
.\"disabled by
.\"the server by not configuring a key).  The key number and the corresponding
.\"key must also be made known to
.\".IR xtnpdc .
.\"This can be done using the
.\".B keyid
.\"and
.\".B passwd
.\"commands, the latter of which will prompt at the
.\"terminal for a password to use
.\"as the encryption key.  You will also be prompted automatically for
.\"both the key number and password the
.\"first time a command which would result in an authenticated request
.\"to the server is given.  Authentication not only provides verification
.\"that the requester has permission to make such changes, but also gives
.\"an extra degree of protection again transmission errors.
.\".PP
.\"Authenticated requests always include a timestamp in the packet data, which
.\"is included in the computation of the authentication code.  This timestamp
.\"is compared by the server to its receive time stamp.  If they differ
.\"by more than a small amount the request is rejected.  This is done for
.\"two reasons.  First, it makes simple replay attacks on the server, by someone
.\"who might be able to overhear traffic on your LAN, much more difficult.
.\"Second, it makes it more difficult to request configuration changes
.\"to your server from topologically remote hosts.  While the reconfiguration
.\"facility will work well with a server on the local host, and may work
.\"adequately between time\-synchronized hosts on the same LAN, it will
.\"work very poorly for more distant hosts.  As such, if reasonable passwords
.\"are chosen, care is taken in the distribution and protection of keys and
.\"appropriate source address restrictions are applied, the
.\"run time reconfiguration facility should provide an adequate level of
.\"security.
.\".PP
.\"The following commands all make authenticated requests.
.\".PP
.\".B addpeer
.\".I peer_address
.\"[
.\".I keyid
.\"] [
.\".I version#
.\"] [
.\".B minpoll
.\"]
.\".PP
.\"Add a configured, symmetric active peer association with a peer at the
.\"given address.  If the optional \*Lkeyid\*O is a nonzero integer
.\"all outgoing packets to the remote server will
.\"have an authentication field attached encrypted with this key.  If the
.\"value is 0 (or not given) no authentication will be done.  The
.\"\*Lversion#\*O can be 1 or 2, and defaults to 2.  If \*Lminpoll\*O
.\"is specified the polling interval for the association will remain
.\"clamped at the minimum.  The latter option is only useful for testing.
.\"Note that an existing association with the same peer may be deleted
.\"when this command is executed, or may simply be converted to conform to
.\"the new configuration, as appropriate.
.\".PP
.\".B addserver
.\".I peer_address
.\"[
.\".I keyid
.\"] [
.\".I version#
.\"] [
.\".B minpoll
.\"]
.\".PP
.\"Identical to the
.\".B addpeer
.\"command except that polling is done in client mode rather than
.\"symmetric active mode.
.\".PP
.\".B broadcast
.\".I peer_address
.\"[
.\".I keyid
.\"] [
.\".I version#
.\"] [
.\".B minpoll
.\"]
.\".PP
.\"Identical to the
.\".B addpeer
.\"command except that packets are instead sent in broadcast mode.  The
.\"\*Lpeer_address\*O parameter will generally be a broadcast address
.\"on one of your local networks.
.\".PP
.\".B unconfig
.\".I peer_address
.\"[
.\".I addr2
.\"] [
.\".I addr3
.\"] [
.\".I addr4
.\"]
.\".PP
.\"This command causes the configured bit to be removed from the specified
.\"peer(s).  In many cases this will cause the peer association to be
.\"deleted.  When appropriate, however, the association may persist in
.\"an unconfigured mode if the remote peer is willing to continue on in
.\"this fashion.
.\".PP
.\".B set bclient|auth
.\"[
.\".I ...
.\"]
.\".PP
.\"Allows the setting of the broadcast client and/or authenticate system
.\"flags.  Setting the former causes the server to listen for broadcast
.\"NTP to to synchronize to broadcasts when appropriate.  Setting the
.\"latter flag causes the server to only synchronize with peers which
.\"include an authentication field encrypted with one of the local server's
.\"trusted keys.
.\".PP
.\".B clear bclient|auth
.\"[
.\".I ...
.\"]
.\".PP
.\"Allows the broadcast client and/or authenticate system flags to be
.\"cleared.  Clearing the former causes incoming broadcast NTP packets
.\"to be ignored.  Clearing the latter allows peers which have not included
.\"an authentication field, or which have included one but have encrypted
.\"it with an untrusted key, to be considered synchronization candidates.
.\".PP
.\".B restrict
.\".I address
.\".I mask
.\".I flag
.\"[
.\".I flag
.\"]
.\".PP
.\"Causes flag(s) to be added to an existing restrict list entry, or adds
.\"a new entry to the list with the specified flag(s).  The possible choices
.\"for the flags arguments are given in the following list:
.\".LI "\*Lignore 10
.\"Ignore all packets from hosts which match this entry.  If this flag
.\"is specified neither queries nor time server polls will be responded
.\"to.
.\".LI "\*Lnoquery 10
.\"Ignore all NTP mode 7 packets (i.e. information queries and configuration
.\"requests) from the source.  Time service is not affected.
.\".LI "\*Lnomodify 10
.\"Ignore all NTP mode 7 packets which attempt to modify the state of the
.\"server (i.e. run time reconfiguration).  Queries which return information
.\"are permitted.
.\".LI "\*Lnoserve 10
.\"Ignore NTP packets whose mode is other than 7.  In effect, time service is
.\"denied, though queries may still be permitted.
.\".LI "\*Lnopeer 10
.\"Provide stateless time service to polling hosts, but do not allocate peer
.\"memory resources to these hosts even if they otherwise might be considered
.\"useful as future synchronization partners.
.\".LI "\*Lnotrust 10
.\"Treat these hosts normally in other respects, but never use them as
.\"synchronization sources.
.\".LI "\*Lntpport 10
.\"This is actually a match algorithm modifier, rather than a restriction
.\"flag.  Its presence causes the restriction entry to be matched only if
.\"the source port in the packet is the standard NTP UDP port (123).  Both
.\"\*Lntpport\*O and non\-\*Lntpport\*O may be specified.  The
.\"\*Lntpport\*O is considered more specific and is sorted later in the
.\"list.
.\".PP
.\".B unrestrict
.\".I address
.\".I mask
.\".I flag
.\"[
.\".I flag
.\"]
.\".PP
.\"Remove the specified flag(s) from the restrict list entry indicated
.\"by the
.\".I address
.\"and
.\".I mask
.\"arguments.
.\".PP
.\".B delrestrict
.\".I address
.\".I mask
.\"[
.\".B ntpport
.\"]
.\".PP
.\"Delete the matching entry from the restrict list.
.\".PP
.\".B "monitor yes|no"
.\".PP
.\"Enable or disable the monitoring facility.  Note that a
.\".B "monitor no"
.\"command followed by a
.\".B "monitor yes"
.\"command is a good way of resetting the packet counts.
.\".PP
.\".B readkeys
.\".PP
.\"Causes the current set of authentication keys to be purged and a
.\"new set to be obtained by rereading the keys file (which must have
.\"been specified in the
.\".I xntpd
.\"configuration file).  This allows encryption keys to be changed without
.\"restarting the server.
.\".PP
.\".B trustkey
.\".I keyid
.\"[
.\".I keyid
.\"] [
.\".I keyid
.\"] [
.\".I keyid
.\"]
.\".PP
.\"Adds one or more keys to the trusted key list.  When authentication
.\"is enabled, peers whose time is to be trusted must be authenticated using
.\"a trusted key.
.\".PP
.\".B untrustkey
.\".I keyid
.\"[
.\".I keyid
.\"] [
.\".I keyid
.\"] [
.\".I keyid
.\"]
.\".PP
.\"Removes one or more keys from the trusted key list.
.\".PP
.\".B authinfo
.\".PP
.\"Returns information concerning the authentication module, including
.\"known keys and counts of encryptions and decryptions which have been
.\"done.
.\".PP
.\".B setprecision
.\".I precision_value
.\".PP
.\"Sets the precision which the server advertises to the specified value.  This
.\"should be a negative integer in the range -4 through -20.
.\".PP
.\".B setselect
.\".I algorithm_number
.\".PP
.\"Sets the selection weight algorithm to that indicated by the specified number.
.\"This should be an integer value between 1 and 5 inclusive.  Algorithm 1
.\"is that specified in RFC 1119, the other 4 algorithms are experimental
.\"and should be used with caution.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L***Can't find host\*O \*Vhostname\*O"
The \*Vhostname\*O is not in the local \*L/etc/hosts\*O file.
.LI "\*Vhostname\*O\*L: timed out, nothing received\*O"
.LI "\*L***Request timed out\*O"
Check that \*Lxntpd\*O is running on the remote host being queried.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lntp.conf\*O(4), \*Lntpdate\*O(8), \*Lntpq\*O(8), \*Lntpsetup\*O(8),
\*Lxntpd\*O(8)
.\".SH HISTORY
.\".PP
.\"Written by Dennis Ferguson at the University of Toronto.
.\".SH BUGS
.\".PP
.\".I Xntpdc
.\"is a crude hack.  Much of the information it shows is deadly boring
.\"and could only be loved by its implementer.  The program was designed
.\"so that new (and temporary) features were easy to hack in, at great
.\"expense to the program's ease of use.  Despite this, the program
.\"is occasionally useful.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
