.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XSysAdmin.8,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.8 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:24:22 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.\" @(#)XSysAdmin.1m	1.3 17:24:55 8/19/90 SecureWare Inc.
.\"
.\" Based on CMW+ Evaluation Version
.\"
.\" @(#)XSysAdmin.1m	1.2 17:36:11 3/28/90 SecureWare
.\" Copyright (c) 1989,1990 SecureWare, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1989,1990 SKM, L.P.
.\"build rmifdef
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
.\" #ifdef SEC_ROLE_X
.TH XSysAdmin 8
.SH "NAME"
.PP
\*LXSysAdmin\*O \- Windows interface for the system administrator functions (Enhanced Security)
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/tcb/bin/XSysAdmin\*O
.sE
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "XSysAdmin"
The
\*LXSysAdmin\*O program is
the windowing interface
for the person who fills the system administrator role.
To invoke this program, you must login as root.
.\" have the \*Lsysadmin\*O command authorization.
.PP
This interface program allows you to do the following:
.ML
.LI
Create a new user
.LI
Retire an account
.LI
Create a new group
.LI
Modify the account parameters of the person who performs the
ISSO (Information System Security Officer) role.
.LI
Modify account templates.
.LE
.PP
The person assigned the system
administrator role generally cannot
set account default values or modify the account
parameters of a normal (non-ISSO) account.
.PP
The program supports the following functions:
.VL 3m
.LI "Create User Accounts"
Allows you to create a new account. The home directory is
created and the template files from \*L/usr/skel\*O
are copied to the new home directory with a dot (\&.) prepended to the file.
The new account assumes all default values
specified in the system default database.
These values are set by the ISSO.
.LI "Retire User Accounts"
This allows you to retire a user account, including an ISSO account.
Once retired, an account name can never be reused. You should only
use this option if the account will never be reused; if you are unsure then
you should use the Lock Account option.
.LI "Create Groups"
Allows you to create a new group.
.LI "Modify ISSO Accounts"
Allows you to select the account of the person performing the ISSO function
and to modify the account
parameters. These parameters will override any system-wide defaults that
are specified. You may select the audit events that are
audited for the user,
groups that the user may belong to, login control parameters,
and password parameters.
.LI "Modify Account Templates"
The
.PN XSysAdmin
interface allows you to modify the account
templates used to create accounts. An account template
is actually an account that cannot be logged into.
You can change password parameters, assign groups, audit events,
and login controls.
.LE
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "FILES"
.VL 3m
.LI "\*L/usr/tcb/bin/XSysAdmin\*O"
Specifies the command path.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/XSysAdmin\*O"
Resource file.
.LI "\*L/usr/skel\*O"
Template files for a user's home directory.
.LI "\*L/tcb/files/auth/[a-z]/*\*O"
Protected Password database.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/X11/help/xif.decw_book\*O"
Bookreader help file.
.LE
.br
.ne 1.5i
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands:
\*Lsecsetup\*O(8),
\*LXIsso\*O(8)
.PP
\*EEnhanced Security\*O
.\" #endif /* SEC_ROLE_X */
.\" #endif /* SEC_BASE */
.EQ
delim off
.EN
