.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ypmake.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 14:59:34 $
.\"
.TH ypmake 8
.SH NAME
ypmake \- rebuild Network Information Service (NIS) database using the make command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
.B cd /var/yp
.fi
.B make
[
\*Voptions \*O
]
[
\*Vmap\*O
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ypmake command"
.iX "make command" "and NIS"
.iX "NIS" "rebuilding data base"
The \*Lmake\*O command uses the \*L/var/yp/Makefile\*O
to build an NIS database.
With no arguments, \*Lmake\*O creates \*Ldbm\*O
databases for any NIS maps that are out-of-date,
and then executes \*Lyppush\*O(8)
to notify slave servers that there has been a change.
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.RS 5
Execute the \*Lmake\*O command only at an NIS master server machine.  If it
is executed from either a slave server or an NIS client machine, the
created changes will only be overwritten when the next NIS master server
machine update, using \*Lypxfr\*O, is performed.
.RE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
The
\*Voptions \*O
argument can be used to override the default values of
three special variables used by \*Lmake\*O:
.IP DIR
Instructs \*Lmake\*O to use the source files in the specified directory.
The default is \*L/var/yp/src\*O
.IP NOPUSH
When non-null, inhibits updating of the new data
base files using the \*Lyppush\*O(8)
function. The default is the null string.
.IP DOM
Instructs \*Lmake\*O to construct a domain
other than the master's default domain. The
\*VDOM\*O
variable in \*L/var/yp/Makefile\*O must be set to
the domain name before running make. If you run \*Lypsetup\*O, the
\*VDOM\*O variable is set when you specify a domain name.
.PP
To override the default values of these special variables, an
\*Voptions\*O
argument format of
\*Vspecial_variable = value\*O
is used.  See the Examples section for an example.
.PP
The
\*Vmap\*O
argument supplied on the command line instructs \*Lmake\*O to
update only the specified map.
The specified maps are those located at \*L/var/yp/{domain}\*O,
where {domain} is the NIS domain name.
Some typical entries for the
\*Vmap \*O
argument are passwd, hosts, and networks.
Typing \*Lmake passwd\*O creates and updates the NIS password
database, if it is out of date. The \*Lmake\*O command distributes
the updated password data base to the slave servers using \*Lyppush\*O(8).
Therefore, typing
.oS
make host
.oE
or
.oS
make networks
.oE
creates and updates the host and network files, \*L/var/yp/src/hosts\*O
and \*L/var/yp/src/networks\*O respectively, on the master and slave
servers.
.PP
See \*Lypfiles\*O(4) and \*Lypserv\*O(8) for an overview of NIS.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
This example causes \*Lmake\*O to create a password NIS map for the domain
\*LNewDomain\*O instead of for the default domain:
.oS
make DOM=NewDomain passwd
.oE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lmake\*O(1), \*Lmakedbm\*O(8), \*Lypserv\*O(8), \*Lyppush\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
