.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: yppasswdd.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/07/22 13:27:57 $
.\" 
.TH yppasswdd 8
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lyppasswdd\*O, \*Lrpc.yppasswdd\*O \- server daemon for modifying the Network Information Service
(NIS) password file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /usr/sbin/rpc.yppasswdd
\*Vfile \*O
[
.B \-m
\*Varg1 arg2 ... \*O
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "yppasswdd daemon"
.iX "password file (NIS)" "modifying"
The \*Lyppasswdd\*O daemon is a server that handles
password change requests from \*Lyppasswd\*O(1).
It changes a password entry in the specified
\*Vfile,\*O
which is assumed to be in the same format described in \*Lpasswd\*O(4).
An entry in
\*Vfile\*O
will be changed only if the password presented by \*Lyppasswd\*O(1)
matches the encrypted password of that entry.
.PP
If the \*L\-m\*O option is given, then after
\*Vfile\*O
is modified, a \*Lmake\*O(1) will be performed in
\*L/var/yp\*O. Any arguments following the flag will be passed to
\*Lmake\*O. The \*L\-m\*O option should be set only at a NIS
master server machine.
.PP
This server is not run by default, nor can it be started up from
\*Linetd\*O(8). If it is desired
to enable remote password updating for the NIS,
then an entry for \*Lyppasswdd\*O should be put in the
\*L/sbin/init.d/nis\*O file of the host serving as the master for the NIS
\*Lpasswd\*O file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
If the NIS password file is stored as \*L/var/yp/src/passwd\*O,
then to have password changes propagated immediately,
the server should be invoked as:
.oS
/usr/sbin/rpc.yppasswdd /var/yp/src/passwd \
-m passwd DIR= /var/yp/src
.oE
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/var/yp/Makefile\*O
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lyppasswd\*O(1), \*Lpasswd\*O(4), \*Lypfiles\*O(4), \*Lypmake\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
