.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: yppoll.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 14:59:55 $
.\"
.TH yppoll 8
.SH NAME
yppoll \- determine which version of a Network Information Service (NIS) map is at a master NIS server host.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B yppoll
[ \f3-h \f2host\f1 ]
[ \f3-d \f2domain\f1 ]
\*Vmapname\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "yppoll command"
.iX "NIS map" "determining version"
The \*Lyppoll\*O command asks a \*Lypserv\*O
process for the domain, order number, and master NIS server
(also known as map parameters) associated with the named map.
If the server is a v.1 NIS protocol server, \*Lyppoll\*O
uses the older protocol to communicate with \*Lypserv\*O
and uses the older diagnostic messages if a failure occurs.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP "\f3\-h \f2host\f1"
Ask the \*Lypserv\*O process at
\*Vhost\*O
about the map parameters (order number and master server for the map).  If
\*Vhost\*O
is not specified, the NIS server for the local host is used.
That is, the default host is the one returned by \*Lypwhich\*O(1).
.IP "\f3\-d \f2domain\f1"
Use
\*Vdomain\*O
instead of the default domain.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lypfiles\*O(4), \*Lypserv\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
