.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: yppush.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/09/21 08:52:16 $
.\"
.TH yppush 8
.SH NAME
yppush \- force propagation of a changed Network Information Service (NIS) map
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B yppush
[
.B \-d
\*Vdomain \*O
]
[
.B \-v
]
\*Vmapname\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "yppush command"
...\".NXA "yppush command" "ypxfr command"
.iX "NIS map" "copying to slave servers"
The \*Lyppush\*O command copies a new
version of a Network Information Service (NIS)
map from the master NIS server to the
slave NIS servers.
It is normally run only on the master NIS server by the \*Lmake\*O
utility accessing the \*L/var/yp/Makefile\*O
after the master NIS databases have been changed.
When invoked, \*Lyppush\*O
first constructs a list of NIS server hosts by reading the NIS map
\f2ypservers\f1 within the
\*Vdomain.  \*O
Keys within the map
\*Vypservers\*O
are the ASCII names of the machines on which the NIS servers
run.
.PP
A transfer map request is sent to the NIS server at each host,
along with the information needed by the transfer agent (the program
which actually moves the map) to call back the \*Lyppush\*O
command.
When the
attempt has completed
(successfully or not), and the transfer agent has sent \*Lyppush\*O
a status message, the results can be printed to stdout.  Messages
are also printed when a transfer is not possible, for
instance when the request message is undeliverable,
or when the timeout period on responses has expired.
.PP
Refer to \*Lypfiles\*O(4) and \*Lypserv\*O(8) for an overview of NIS.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.TP
.B \-d
Specify a
\*Vdomain.\*O
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose.
This causes messages to be printed when each server is called, and for
each response.
Without this flag, only error messages are printed.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
In the current implementation
(version 2 NIS protocol), the transfer agent is \*Lypxfr\*O,
which is started by the \*Lypserv\*O
program.  If \*Lyppush\*O
detects that it is speaking to a version 1 NIS protocol
server, it uses the older protocol, sending a version 1 YPPROC_GET
request and issues a message to that effect.
Unfortunately, there is no way of knowing
if or when the map transfer was performed for version 1 servers.
The \*Lyppush\*O
command prints a message saying that an old-style message has been sent.
The system administrator should later check to see that the
transfer has actually taken place.
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/var/yp/\*Vdomainname\*L/ypservers.{dir, pag}\*O
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lypfiles\*O(4), \*Lypserv\*O(8), \*Lypxfr\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
