.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ypserv.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 15:00:16 $
.\"
.TH ypserv 8
.SH NAME
ypserv, ypbind \- Network Information Service (NIS) server and binder processes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /usr/sbin/ypserv
.br
.B /usr/sbin/ypbind [ \-S
\*Vdomainname, servername1,servername2...\*O
][
.B \-ypset|-ypsetme
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ypserv command"
.iX "ypbind daemon"
...\".NXA "ypbind daemon" "ypwhich command"
...\".NXA "mount command (NFS)" "ypserv daemon"
...\".NXA "ypserv daemon" "yppush command"
.iX "YP server"
.iX "YP binder"
.PP
The Network Information Service (NIS) provides a distributed data lookup service
for sharing data among networked systems. NIS data is stored in
database files called maps. The databases are \*Ldbm\*O(3)
files stored in the \*L/var/yp/src\*O directory.
These files are described in \*Lypfiles\*O(4).
.PP
The NIS daemons are \*L/usr/sbin/ypserv\*O,
the NIS database lookup server, and \*L/usr/sbin/ypbind\*O,
the YP binder. The software interface to NIS is described in \*Lypclnt\*O(3).
Administrative tools are described in \*Lyppush\*O(8), \*Lypxfr\*O(8),
\*Lyppoll\*O(8), and \*Lypwhich\*O(1).
Tools to see the contents of NIS maps are described in \*Lypcat\*O(1),
and \*Lypmatch\*O(1).
Database generation and maintenance tools are described in \*Lypmake\*O(8),
and \*Lmakedbm\*O(8).
.PP
Both the \*Lypserv\*O and \*Lypbind\*O daemons are activated at system startup
time by \*L/sbin/init.d/nis\*O. The \*Lypserv\*O
daemon runs only on an NIS server machine with a complete NIS database.
The \*Lypbind\*O daemon runs on all machines using NIS,
both NIS servers and clients.
.SS ypserv Daemon
.PP
The \*Lypserv\*O daemon's
primary function is to look up information in its local
database of NIS maps.
The operations performed by \*Lypserv\*O are defined
for the programmer in the header file \*L<rpcsvc/yp_prot.h>\*O.
.PP
Communication with \*Lypserv\*O
is by means of RPC calls.  Lookup functions are described in \*Lypclnt\*O(3),
and are supplied as C-callable functions in \*L/libc\*O.
.PP
There are four lookup functions, all of which are
performed on a specified map within an NIS domain:
\*LMatch\*O, \*LGet_first\*O, \*LGet_next\*O, and \*LGet_all\*O.
The \*LMatch\*O operation takes a key, and returns the associated value.
The \*LGet_first\*O operation returns the first key-value pair from the map, and
the \*LGet_next\*O operation returns the remaining key-value pairs.
The \*LGet_all\*O operation ships the entire map to the requester.
.PP
Two other functions supply
information about the map, rather than the map entries:
\*LGet_order_number\*O, and \*LGet_master_name\*O.
Both the order number and the master name exist in the map as
key-value pairs, but the server will not return either through the
usual lookup functions.  If the map is examined with \*Lmakedbm\*O(8),
however, they are visible.
.PP
Other functions are used within the NIS
subsystem itself, and are not of general interest to NIS clients.  They
include the \*LDo_you_serve_this_domain?\*O,
the \*LTransfer_map\*O, and the \*LReinitialize_internal_state\*O functions.
.SS ypbind Daemon
.PP
The \*Lypbind\*O daemon's function
is to remember information that enables client processes on a single node
communicate with a \*Lypserv\*O process.
The \*Lypbind\*O function \*Vmust\*O
run on every machine that has NIS client service requirements.
The \*Lypbind\*O function must be started through an entry in the
\*L/sbin/init.d/nis\*O file.
.PP
The information \*Lypbind\*O remembers is called a
.IR binding ,
the association of a domain name with
the internet address of the NIS server, and the port on that host at
which the \*Lypserv\*O process is listening for
service requests.  The process of binding is driven
by client requests.  As a request for an unbound domain comes in, the
\*Lypbind\*O process broadcasts on the net trying to find a \*Lypserv\*O
process that serves maps within that domain.  Since the binding is
established by broadcasting, there must be at least one \*Lypserv\*O
process on every net.  Once a domain is bound by a particular \*Lypbind\*O,
that same binding is given to every client process on the node.
The \*Lypbind\*O process on the local node or a
remote node may be queried for the
binding of a particular domain by using the \*Lypwhich\*O(1) command.
.PP
Bindings are verified before they are given out to a client process.  If
\*Lypbind\*O is unable to speak to the \*Lypserv\*O
process it is bound to, it marks the domain as unbound, tells the client
process that the domain is unbound, and tries to bind the domain
once again.  Requests received for an unbound domain will fail
immediately.
In general, a bound domain is marked as unbound when the node
running \*Lypserv\*O
crashes or gets overloaded.  When the node gets overloaded, \*Lypbind\*O
will try to bind to any NIS server (typically
one that is less-heavily loaded) available on the net.
.PP
The \*Lypbind\*O process also accepts requests to
set its binding for a particular
domain.  The request is usually generated by the NIS subsystem itself.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP \-S 10
Allows the system administrator to lock \*Lypbind\*O
to a particular domain and set of servers. Up to four servers can
be specified as follows:
.oS
/usr/sbin/ypbind \-S domainname,server1,server2,server3,server4
.oE
Note that there can not be any spaces around the commas in
the command line. The \*L\-S\*O
option ensures that this system only binds to the
specified domain and to one of the specified servers.
The servers used with the \*L\-S\*O
option must have entries in the local \*L/etc/hosts\*O
file.
.IP \-ypset
\*Lypbind\*O accepts all \*Lypset\*O
requests, unless restricted by the \*L\-S\*O
option.
.IP \-ypsetme
\*Lypbind\*O accepts only local \*Lypset\*O
requests.
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.RS 5
If neither \*L\-ypset\*O nor \*L\-ypsetme\*O are specified,
\*Lypbind\*O does not accept \*Lypset\*O requests to bind
to a particular server.
.sp 6p
.RE
.SH FILES
.PP
If the file \*L/var/yp/ypserv.log\*O exists when
\*Lypserv\*O starts up, log information is written to \*Lypserv.log\*O
when error conditions occur.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lypcat\*O(1), \*Lypmatch\*O(1), \*Lypwhich\*O(1), \*Lypclnt\*O(3),
\*Lypfiles\*O(4), \*Lyppush\*O(8), \*Lypxfr\*O(8)
.br
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
.br
\*ENetwork and Communications Overview\*O
.br
\*ENetwork Administration and Problem Solving\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
