.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ypset.8,v $ $Revision: 3.3.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 15:00:26 $
.\"
.\" @(#)ypset.8 1.1 88/06/02 4.0NFSSRC; from 1.9 88/02/25 SMI
.TH ypset 8
.SH NAME
ypset \- point ypbind at a particular server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /usr/sbin/ypset
[
.BR \-V1\| | \|\-V2
] [
.B \-d
\*Vdomain\*O
] [
.B \-h
\*Vhost\*O
]
\*Vserver\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX ypset "" "\*Lypset\*O \(em direct \*Lypbind\*O to a server"
\*Lypset\*O tells \*Lypbind\*O
to get Network Information Service (NIS) map information for the specified
\*Vdomain\*O from the \*Vypserv\*O process running on \*Vserver\*O.
If \*Vserver\*O is down, or isn't running \*Lypserv\*O,
this is not discovered until an NIS client process tries to
get a binding for the domain.  At this point, the binding set by
\*Lypset\*O will be tested by \*Lypbind\*O.
If the binding is invalid, \*Lypbind\*O
will attempt to rebind for the same domain.
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.RS 5
.BR ypbind
will refuse
.B ypset
requests unless
.B \-ypset
or
.B \-ypsetme
are specified when
.BR ypbind
is started.
.sp 6p
.RE
.PP
.B ypset
is useful for binding a client node which is not on a broadcast net,
or is on a broadcast net which isn't running an NIS
server host.
It also is useful for debugging NIS
client applications, for instance
where an NIS
map only exists at a single NIS
server host.
.PP
In cases where several hosts on the local net are supplying
NIS services, it is possible for
.B ypbind
to rebind to another host even while you attempt to
find out if the
.B ypset
operation succeeded.  For example, you can type:
.oS
% ypset host1
% ypwhich
host2
.oE
.PP
which can be confusing.  This is a function of the
NIS subsystem's attempt to
load-balance among the available
NIS servers, and occurs when
\*Vhost1\*O
does not respond to
.B ypbind
because it is not running
.B ypserv
(or is overloaded), and
.IR host2 ,
running
.BR ypserv ,
gets the binding.
.PP
\*Vserver\*O
indicates the
NIS server to bind to, and
can be specified
as a name or an
.SM IP
address.  If specified as a name,
.B ypset
will attempt to use
NIS services to resolve the name to an
.SM IP
address.  This will work only if
the node has a current valid binding for the domain in question.
In most cases,
\*Vserver\*O
should be specified as an
.SM IP
address.
.PP
Refer to \*Lypfiles\*O(4) and \*Lypserv\*O(8) for an overview of NIS.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.TP
.B \-V1
Bind
\*Vserver\*O
for the (old) v.1
NIS protocol.
.TP
.B \-V2
Bind
\*Vserver\*O
for the (current) v.2
NIS protocol.
.IP
If no version is supplied,
.BR ypset ,
first attempts to set the domain for the (current) v.2 protocol.
If this attempt fails,
.BR ypset ,
then attempts to set the domain for the (old) v.1 protocol.
.TP
.BI \-h  host
Set ypbind's binding on
.IR host ,
instead of locally.
\*Vhost\*O
can be specified as a name or as an
.SM IP
address.
.TP
.BI \-d  domain
Use
\*Vdomain ,\*O
instead of the default domain.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lypwhich\*O(1), \*Lypfiles\*O(4), \*Lypserv\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
