.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ypxfr.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 15:00:45 $
.\"
.TH ypxfr 8
.SH NAME
ypxfr \- transfer a Network Information Service (NIS) map from a NIS server to the local host.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B ypxfr
[
.B \-f
]
[ \f3-h \f2host\f1 ]
[ \f3-d \f2domain\f1 ]
[
.B \-c
]
[ \f3-C\f1
\*Vtid prog ipadd port\*O
]
\*Vmapname\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ypxfr command"
...\".NXA "yppush command" "ypxfr command"
.iX "NIS map" "transferring"
The \*Lypxfr\*O command moves a NIS map, specified by the
\*Vmapname \*O
argument, to the local host by making use of normal NIS services.
It creates a temporary map in the directory \*L/var/yp/domain\*O
(which must already exist),
fills it by enumerating the map's entries, obtains the
map parameters (master and order number) and loads them into the map.
Once \*Lypxfr\*O
has accomplished these tasks,
it deletes any old versions of the map and moves the
temporary map to the real mapname.
.PP
If \*Lypxfr\*O is run interactively, it writes its output to the terminal.
However, if it is invoked without a controlling terminal, and if the
log file \*L/var/yp/ypxfr.log\*O
exists, it will append all its output to that file.  Since \*Lypxfr\*O
is most often run from \*L/var/spool/cron/crontab/root\*O, or by
\*Lypserv\*O, the log file can be used to retain a record of what was
attempted, and the results.
.PP
For consistency between servers, \*Lypxfr\*O
should be run periodically for every map in the NIS database.
Different maps change at different
rates:  the \*Lservices.byname\*O
map may not change for months at a time, for instance, and may
therefore be checked only once a day. It is possible
that \*Lmail.aliases\*O or \*Lhosts.byname\*O
changes several times per day.  In such a case, it is appropriate to
check hourly for updates.   A \*Lcron\*O(8)
entry should be used to perform periodic updates automatically on NIS
server machines only.
Rather than having a separate \*Lcron\*O
entry for each map, commands can be grouped to update several maps
in a shell script.  Examples (mnemonically named) are in \*L/var/yp:\*O
\*Lypxfr_1perday\*O, \*Lypxfr_2perday\*O, and \*Lypxfr_1perhour\*O.
They can serve as models for you to use.
.PP
See \*Lypfiles\*O(4) and \*Lypserv\*O(8) for an overview of NIS.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP "\f3\-f\f1" 1i
Force the transfer to occur even if the version at the MASTER is not
more recent than the local version.
.IP "\f3\-c\f1" 1i
Do not send a "Clear current map" request to the local \*Lypserv\*O
process.  This flag should be used if \*Lypserv\*O
is not running locally at the time when \*Lypxfr\*O
is running.
Otherwise, \*Lypxfr\*O
will report that it can not talk to the local \*Lypserv\*O,
and the transfer will fail.
.IP "\f3\-h \f2host\f1"
Get the map from
\*Vhost,\*O
regardless of which map is the master.  If
\*Vhost \*O
is not specified, \*Lypxfr\*O
will ask the NIS service for the name of the master, and try to get the
map from there.
The
\*Vhost\*O
option can be a name or an IP address in dotted numeric notation.
.IP "\f3\-d \f2domain\f1"
Specify a domain other than the default domain.
.IP "\f3\-C \f2tid prog ipadd port\f1"
This option is only for use by \*Lypserv\*O. When \*Lypserv\*O
invokes \*Lypxfr\*O, it specifies that \*Lypxfr\*O
should call back a \*Lyppush\*O process at the host with IP address
\*Vipaddr,\*O
registered as program number
\*Vprog,\*O
listening on port
\*Vport,\*O
and waiting for a response to transaction
\*Vtid.\*O
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/var/yp/ypxfr.log\*O
.br
\*L/var/yp/ypxfr_1perday\*O
.br
\*L/var/yp/ypxfr_2perday\*O
.br
\*L/var/yp/ypxfr_1perhour\*O
.br
\*L/var/spool/cron/crontab/root\*O
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lypfiles\*O(4), \*Lcron\*O(8), \*Lyppush\*O(8), \*Lypserv\*O(8),
\*Lypsetup\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
