.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\" 
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: zic.8,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/12/24 00:58:38 $
.\"
.TH zic 8
.SH NAME
\*Lzic\*O \- time zone compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/bin/zic\*O [ \*L\-d\*O \*Vdirectory\*O ] [ \*L\-l\*O \*Vlocaltime\*O ] [
\*L\-v\*O ] [ \*Vfilename\*O ... ]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "zic"
.iX "timezone compiler"
The \*Lzic\*O compiler reads text from the file(s) named on the command line
and creates the time conversion information files specified in this input.
If a \*Lfilename\*O is \*L\-\*O, the standard input is read.
.PP
Input lines are made up of fields.
Fields are separated from one another by any
number of white space characters.
Leading and trailing white space on input lines is ignored.
An unquoted number sign (#) in the input introduces
a comment which extends
to the end of the line the sharp character appears on.
White space characters and sharp characters may
be enclosed in double quotation marks (" ")
if they are to be used as part of a field.
Any line that is blank (after comment stripping) is ignored.
Non-blank lines are expected to be of one of three types:
rule lines, zone lines, and link lines.
.PP
A rule line has the form:
.PP
.iS
Rule  NAME  FROM  TO TYPE IN ON      AT    SAVE LETTER/S
.iE
.PP
For example:
.PP
.iS
Rule  USA   1969  1973 \- Apr lastSun 2:00  1:00 D
.iE
.PP
The fields that make up a rule line are:
.VL 4m
.LI "NAME"
Gives the (arbitrary) name of the set of rules this rule is part of.
.LI "FROM"
Gives the first year in which the rule applies.  The word minimum
(or an abbreviation) means the minimum year with a representable time value.
The word maximum (or an abbreviation) means the maximum year with a
representable time value.
.LI "TO"
Gives the final year in which the rule applies.  In addition to
minimum and maximum (as above), the word only (or an abbreviation)
may be used to repeat the value of the FROM field.
.LI "TYPE"
Gives the type of year in which the rule applies.  If TYPE is \*L\-\*O
then the rule applies in all years between FROM and TO inclusive;
if TYPE is `uspres', the rule applies in U.S. Presidential election years;
if TYPE is `nonpres', the rule applies in years other than U.S.
Presidential election years.
If TYPE is something else, then \*Lzic\*O executes the following command
to check the type of a year:
.sp
.sS
\*Lyearistype\*O \*Vyear type\*O
.sE
.sp
An exit status of zero is taken to mean that the year is of the given type;
an exit status of one is taken to mean that the year is not of the given type.
.LI "IN"
Names the month in which the rule takes effect.
Month names may be abbreviated.
.LI "ON"
Gives the day on which the rule takes effect.
Recognized forms include:
.sp
.oS
  5 the fifth of the month
  lastSun the last Sunday in the month
  lastMon the last Monday in the month
  Sun>=8 first Sunday on or after the eighth
  Sun<=25 last Sunday on or before the 25th
.oE
.sp
Names of days of the week may be abbreviated or spelled out in full.
Note that there must be no spaces within the ON field.
.LI "AT"
Gives the time of day at which the rule takes effect.
Recognized forms include:
.sp
.oS
  2 time in hours
  2:00 time in hours and minutes
  15:00 24-hour format time (for times after noon)
  1:28:14 time in hours, minutes, and seconds
.oE
.sp
Any of these forms may be followed by the letter \*Lw\*O
if the given time is local `wall clock' time or the letter \*Ls\*O
if the given time is local `standard' time; in the absence of either
the letter \*Lw\*O or the letter \*Ls\*O, `wall clock' time is assumed.
.LI "SAVE"
Gives the amount of time to be added to local standard time when
the rule is in effect.  This field has the same format as the
AT field (although, of course, the letter \*Lw\*O and \*Lw\*O
suffixes are not used).
.LI "LETTER/S"
Gives the `variable part' (for example, the `S' or `D' in `EST'
or `EDT') of time zone abbreviations to be used when this rule is in effect.
If this field is \*L\-\*O, the variable part is null.
.LE
.PP
A zone line has the form:
.sp
.iS
"Zone NAME             GMTOFF  RULES/SAVE FORMAT UNTIL]"
.iE
.sp
For example:
.sp
.iS
Zone  Australia/South\-west 9:30   Aus      CST   1987 Mar 15 2:00
.iE
.sp
The fields that make up a zone line are:
.VL 4m
.LI "NAME"
The name of the time zone.  This is the name used in creating the
time conversion information file for the zone.
.LI "GMTOFF"
The amount of time to add to GMT to get standard time in this zone.
This field has the same format as the AT and SAVE fields of rule lines;
begin the field with a minus sign if time must be subtracted from GMT.
.LI "RULES/SAVE"
The name of the rule(s) that apply in the time zone or,
alternately, an amount of time to add to local standard time.
If this field is \*L\-\*O,
standard time always applies in the time zone.
.LI "FORMAT"
The format for time zone abbreviations in this time zone.
The pair of characters \*L%s\*O
is used to show where the variable part of the time zone abbreviation goes.
.LI "UNTIL"
The time at which the GMT offset or the rule(s) change for a location.
It is specified as a year, a month, a day, and a time of day.
If this is specified, the time zone information is generated from
the given GMT offset and rule change until the time specified.
.IP
The next line must be a
`continuation' line; this has the same form as a zone line except that the
string `Zone' and the name are omitted, as the continuation line will
place information starting at the time specified as the UNTIL
field in the previous line in the file used by the previous line.
Continuation lines may contain an UNTIL
field, just as zone lines do, indicating that the next line is a further
continuation.
.LE
.PP
A link line has the form:
.sp
.iS
"Link   LINK-FROM    LINK-TO"
.iE
.sp
For example:
.sp
.iS
 Link   US/Eastern   EST5EDT
.iE
.sp
The LINK-FROM field should appear as the NAME field in some zone line;
the LINK-TO field is used as an alternate name for that zone.
.PP
Except for continuation lines, lines may appear in any order in the input.
.PP
NOTE:  For areas with more than two types of local time,
you may need to use local standard time in the AT
field of the earliest transition time's rule to ensure that
the earliest transition time recorded in the compiled file is correct.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-d \*Vdirectory\*O"
Create time conversion information files in the named \*Vdirectory\*O
rather than in the standard directory named below.
.LI "\*L\-l \*Vtimezone\*O"
Use the given time zone as local time.  The \*Lzic\*O
compiler will act as if the file contained a link line of the form:
.sp
.sS
\*Llink \*Vtimezone localtime\*O
.sE
.LI "\*L\-v\*O"
Complain if a year that appears in a data file is outside the range
of years representable by \*Ltime\*O values.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 10m
.LI "\*L/etc/zoneinfo\*O"
Standard directory used for created files
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lctime\*O(3), \*Ltzfile\*O(5), \*Lzdump\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
