.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.TH CONSTYPE 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
constype - print type of Sun console
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "constype"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Consoletype
prints on the standard output the Sun code for the type of display
that the console is. It is one of:
.sp 2
.in +0.5i
.nf
bw?	Black and White, where ? is 1-4. (eg) 3-50s are bw2
cg?	Colour Graphics display, where ? is 1-4
gp?	Optional Graphics Processor board, where ? is 1-2
ns?	Not Sun display - where ? is A-J
.fi
.in -0.5i
.sp 2
This is useful in determining startup values and defaults for window
systems.
.SH BUGS
Not tested on all monitor types
.SH COPYRIGHT 
Copyright 1988, SRI
.SH AUTHOR
Doug Moran <moran@ai.sri.com>

