.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" $XConsortium: kbd_mode.man,v 1.7 91/07/27 16:20:21 rws Exp $
.TH KBD_MODE 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
kbd_mode \- recover the Sun console keyboard
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kbd_mode
[ -a -e -n -u ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Kbd_mode
resets the Sun console keyboard to a rational state.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported, see \fIkb(4S)\fP for details:
.TP 8
.B \-a
Causes ASCII to be reported.
.TP 8
.B \-e
Causes \fIFirm_events\fP to be reported.
.TP 8
.B \-n
Causes up/down key codes to be reported.
.TP 8
.B \-u
Causes undecoded keyboard values to be reported.
.SH SEE ALSO
kb(4S)
