.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.TH XEYES 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xeyes \- a follow the mouse X demo
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xeyes
[-option ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xeyes
watches what you do and reports to the Boss.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-fg \fIforeground color\fB
choose a different color for the pupil of the eyes.
.TP 8
.B \-bg \fIbackground color\fB
choose a different color for the background.
.TP 8
.B \-outline \fIoutline color\fB
choose a different color for the outline of the eyes.
.TP 8
.B \-center \fIcenter color\fB
choose a different color for the center of the eyes.
.TP 8
.B \-backing \fI{ WhenMapped Always NotUseful }\fB
selects an appropriate level of backing store.
.TP 8
.B \-geometry \fIgeometry\fB
define the initial window geometry; see \fIX(1)\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIdisplay\fB
specify the display to use; see \fIX(1)\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-bd \fIborder color\fB
choose a different color for the window border.
.TP 8
.B \-bw \fIborder width\fB
choose a different width for the window border.
.TP 8
.B \-shape
uses the SHAPE extension to shape the window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \+shape
Disables uses the SHAPE extension to shape the window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), X Toolkit documentation
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1988, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Keith Packard, MIT X Consortium
.br
Copied from the NeWS version written (apparantly) by Jeremy Huxtable as seen
at SIGGRAPH '88
