.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.ds xL Programming With Xlib
.TH XChangeKeyboardDevice 3X11 "Release 5" "X Version 11" "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XChangeKeyboardDevice \- change which device is used as the X keyboard
.SH SYNTAX
Status XChangeKeyboardDevice\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIdevice\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      XDevice *\fIdevice\fP\^; 
.br
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 12
.I display
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.TP 12
.I device
Specifies the device to be used as the X keyboard.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIXChangeKeyboardDevice\fP request causes the server to use the specified
device as the X keyboard.  The device must have been previously opened by the
requesting client via \fIXOpenDevice\fP or a \fIBadDevice\fP error will result.
The device must support input class \fIKeys\fP, or a \fIBadMatch\fP error
will result.  If the server implementation does not support using the requested
device as the X keyboard, a \fIBadDevice\fP error will result.
.P
If the specified device is grabbed by another client, \fIAlreadyGrabbed\fP
is returned.  If the specified device is frozen by a grab on another device,
\fIGrabFrozen\fP is returned.
If the request is successful, \fISuccess\fP is returned.
.P
If the request succeeds,
a \fIChangeDeviceNotify\fP event is sent to all clients that have selected that
event.  A \fIMappingNotify\fP event with request = \fIMappingKeyboard\fP
is sent to all clients.
The specified device becomes the X keyboard and 
the old X keyboard becomes accessible through the input extension
protocol requests.
.P
\fIXChangeKeyboardDevice\fP can generate a \fIBadDevice\fP or a \fIBadMatch\fP
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 12
\fIBadDevice\fP
An invalid device was specified.  The specified device does not exist, has 
not been opened by this client via \fIXOpenInputDevice\fP,  or is already
one of the core X device (pointer or keyboard).  This error may
also occur if 
the server implementation does not support using the specified device as
the X keyboard.
.TP 12
\fIBadMatch\fP
This error may occur if an \fIXChangeKeyboardDevice\fP request was made 
specifying a device that has no keys.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XChangePointerDevice
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
