.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.ds xL Programming with Xlib
.TH XSetDeviceValuators 3X11 "Release 5" "X Version 11" "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XSetDeviceValuators \- initialize the valuators on an extension input device
.SH SYNTAX
XSetDeviceValuators\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIdevice\fP\^, \fIvaluators\fP\^, \fIfirst_valuator\fP\^, \fInum_valuators\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      XDevice *\fIdevice\fP\^; 
.br
      int *\fIvaluators\fP\^; 
.br
      int \fIfirst_valuator\fP\^; 
.br
      int \fInum_valuators\fP\^; 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 12
.I display
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.TP 12
.I device
Specifies the device whose valuators are to be initialized.
.TP 12
.I valuators
Specifies a pointer to an array of integer values to be used to initialize the
device valuators.
.TP 12
.I first_valuator
Specifies the first valuator to be set.  Valuators are numbered beginning with
zero.
.TP 12
.I num_valuators
Specifies the number of valuators to be set.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIXSetDeviceValuators\fP
request sets the current values of the valuators of an input device.
The valuators in the range
first_valuator to (first_valuator + num_valuators)
are set to the specified values.  Valuators are numbered beginning with 0.
Not all input devices support initialization of valuator values.  If this
request is made to a device that does not support valuators initialization,
a \fIBadMatch\fP error will occur.
.P
If the request succeeds, a status of Success is returned.  If another
client has the device grabbed, a status of AlreadyGrabbed is returned.
.P
\fIXSetDeviceValuators\fP
can generate a \fIBadLength\fP, \fIBadDevice\fP , \fIBadMatch\fP, or 
\fIBadValue\fP error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 12
\fIBadDevice\fP
An invalid device was specified.  The specified device does not exist or has 
not been opened by this client via \fIXOpenInputDevice\fP.
.TP 12
\fIBadMatch\fP
This error may occur if an \fIXSetDeviceValuators\fP request is made 
specifying a device that has no valuators and reports no axes of motion,
or if such a request is made specifying a device that does not support
valuator initialization.
.TP 12
\fIBadValue\fP
An invalid first_valuator or num_valuators values was specified.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
