.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" $XConsortium: Xqdss.man,v 1.2 91/07/27 17:03:59 rws Exp $
.TH XQDSS 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
Xqdss - VAXStation II/GPX server for the X Window System
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The QDSS hardware in the VAXStation II/GPX supports 8 plane or 4 plane
displays.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.br
\fB-bp\fP \fIpixel-value\fP	set default black-pixel color
.br
\fB-wp\fP \fIpixel-value\fP	set default white-pixel color
.sp
The server also takes all of the standard server options (See
/fIXserver(1)/fP for a complete list.)
.PP
.SH NOTE
You need to make sure your kernel is configured with DMA_BUFSIZ
set to 10 in sys/data/qd_data.c, or things won't work right.
.PP
.SH BUGS
.PP
Currently only numeric arguments from #000000 to #ffffff are
accepted for default BlackPixel and WhitePixel, and no screen 
number is accepted.
.PP
The GPX hardware contains a polygon edge address generation engine
which does not conform to the polygon edge
model specified in the X11 protocol document.
The effect is that GPX polygon edges extend on average
one-half pixel farther out than they ought.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
Xserver(1), xinit(1), X(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1987, 1988, Digital Equipment Corporation.
.br
Copyright 1987, 1988, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Donald Mullis and Matt Pappas, Digital Equipment Corporation.
.PP
Thanks to Ram Rao, Vasudev Bhandarkar and Mary Larsen of UEG for their 4-plane
code and numerous bug fixes.
