	Changes in the wordlists used by "spell" -- March 1987

(a)  Words to be added to /usr/dict/words:

(a1)  First, the straightforward cases: useful words not previously
accepted by "spell".  Most were obtained by reading issues of Natural
History Magazine (and also one book on India) at the terminal, and
typing in words that I guessed might be missing but that seemed common
enough to be worth including.  Others came up in different ways, such
as thinking about the algorithms "spell" must use to get derived forms,
guessing at loopholes, and testing them out.  Whenever I had a list of
twenty or thirty words, I would run "spell" on it, and add the results
to my collection.

abhor abjure abnegation abscond absurdum acacia acetaminophen Achaean
acidify acidulate acrimonious acrimony acrophobia acrophobic
acupuncture Adlerian adrenalin adoration aerie aerofoil Aesop afreet
Afrikaans Afrikaner afterbirth agar agog agribusiness agronomist
agronomy airbrush Aladdin Alasdair Alastair albino alchemist Aleutian
Algonquian alimentary allmsgs alpaca amoeboid Amharic ammonite amnesia
amnesiac amnesty amniocentesis amniotic Anacreon Analects anatomist
Andalusia androgen anaphora anaphoric animist annelid anoint
anticonvulsant anthropocentric anthropoid anthropomorphism Antilles
antipodal antivenin aphrodisiac apiary apical apoplectic apoplexy
apostasy aquifer Arapaho arborescent Argentine Argentinian aria
arthropod ashram astrologer astrology astrophysicist asymptomatic atoll
atonic Attlee auspice austral autochthonous autopilot auxin Avernus
avian Avignon avowal Azores bacchanalian backpedal backscatter
backslash backslide backwash Baja bannock baobab bareback Barnum baryon
basaltic basilica basketry Basque bassoon beagle bedevil beeswax
bedfellow befriend begat begot Belize bellyaching bellyful beluga
Benares bestiary Bhagavadgita bigamy bighorn bike Bilbao billfold
bipedal birdcage birthrate Blackfoot blackguard blacktop blitzkrieg
bloodletting blunderbuss blurb bogeyman bookmark bookworm boreal
Bosporus bossy bottlecap bouillabaisse bouillon bountiful bowerbird
brainchild brakemen breakneck Brie brigand bristlecone bristly
broadminded brushstroke bubonic buccaneer bucketful bulbous bullrush
bumpkin bumpy bushland businesswoman businesswomen busload busywork
butterscotch buzzard caching cacophonous Caesarian Cajun calabash
callosity calyx Camembert Cameroon canoeist Canopus capuchin carapace
Carboniferous cardigan cardioid Carlsbad carousel carpal carpetbag
carpetbagger carpetbagging cassava castrate cataleptic Catalonia caudal
catwalk ceasefire celebratory Celt centripetal cetacean Chandigarh
chapati charcuterie chauvinism chauvinist Cheddar cheesemaking Chelsea
chewy chickpea childbearing childrearing chintz chintzy chitin
chitinous Chloe choline chondrite chopstick choryza chromosomal
chromosome chrysalis circadian clavicle clef Clemens cloaca cloacal
clownish cob cockfight codex coevolution cognoscenti coldhearted colic
collocate cologne comestible commensal compunction condominium
conspecific constipate construal contraindicate contrapositive
coprocessor copulate corolla corpuscle corset Corsica Cortez cottontail
coterie countermand countermeasure counterrevolution
counterrevolutionary counterthreat counterweight couplet crampon
crinoid cropland crore crossword crowbar crunchy crustacean crusty
cubicle cubby cubit cultivar cuneiform curmudgeon Cuzco Cuvier cygnet
cymbal daemon daguerreotype dal Damocles damselfly datura dawdle
decapitate decapod decoy defoliate Deimos Deirdre deliveryman
deliverymen Demeter demographer dentition deplane depredation
dermatology determinacy detritus deuteron diagrammed diagramming
diatribe dieresis digamma diminuendo dimorphic dimorphism Diocletian
Diogenes doddering dogmatist domesticate dormouse dorsal downy drably
Draconian Dravidian drawstring drayman driftwood drupe duckbilled
duckweed dumpling dugong dumbly dumpster duodenal duodenum dyestuff
earshot Earthman Earthmen echolocation effusion Egyptology eightyfold
elevenfold eliminable elver emacs embitter emblazon emetic emigre
emigree emissive empathic emptyhanded endemic endometrial endometriosis
epiphyte epiphytic epilepsy epiphany eponymous equivocate ermine
escarpment estrogen estrous estrus ethernet ethnomusicology Etruria
euglena eukaryotic euphony euphonious eutrophication Everglade
eviscerate exactitude excrement exfoliate exoskeleta expatriate expiry
extramural extracurricular extraterritorial eyesore faience Falkland
Fallopian falsetto faunal fecal feces feckless feisty femoral fennec
fervid festoon fiddlehead fiftyfold Fiji Fijian filamentous fingerling
finitude flan floodwater floruit flunk flunky folic folksinger
folksinging folktale foment foolscap foothold foraminifera forgather
forgo forgone forswore forsworn fortyfold forwent foxtrot fractal
freedman freeload fridge Friesland Frisian frizzy frolicked frolicking
frond Fulbright fumarole fundraiser fundraising funerary funky Galilean
Galileo gamesmanship gamete Gandhi Gandhian garnish gases gastronomic
gatekeeper Gautama gauzy gazebo gazpacho Geminid gemsbok gentlewoman
gentlewomen genuflect geode geothermal gestation gestural Ghanian
gibberellin gimlet girt gizmo gizzard gjetost glibly gluten gluttonous
gluttony Gobi gonad gonadotropic gramophone grasshopper gravitometer
graviton gridlock grimy grotto grottoes grouch grouchy groundhog grouse
grump grumpy Gruyere Guinevere Gujarat Gujarati gulch gunpoint haggis
hagiography hairspring harebrained halftone hallucinatory hallucinogen
hallucinogenic hamstrung handpicked handprint hangdog hangnail
hardbound hardcover hardhearted hardwire harken hatchery Hausa
haversack headcount headlong headman headmen heartland heartthrob
heartrending heavyset Hebrides Heidegger heifer Hellespont herbarium
herbicide herbivore herbivorous herdsmen hermaphrodite hermaphroditic
hermit hermitage hernia hidebound hindquarters Hindi Hindustan hippie
hoax hollandaise homeobox homeopathic homespun hominid honky hoofprint
Hopi hormonal hornpipe Hottentot hotfoot housemate hubcap hullaballoo
hullabaloo humdrum hunchback hydrocyanic hydrophone hyperthermia
hypothalmus hypothermia hypotonic icecap iceman incisor iconography
ideogram idetic idly ignominy immunology inchoate inauthentic inchworm
incognito Indochinese Indus inebriate inedible inessential infanticide
inflorescent info infusoria ingrained innard insectivore insolate
instar insectivorous interdigitate interferon intestinal intuit
invocable Iranian Iraqi ironbound irreconciliable islet isthmus itchy
jackal java Johanna Judaica juggernaut jukebox Jung Jungian Jutland
Kampuchea Kannada Kashmir katydid Kerouac keto Kilimanjaro kinkajou
kinsman kinsmen Knossos krill krummholz Kumar labium lachrymose
ladybird ladybug lakh lama Lancelot lancet landlady landlocked
landlubber landmass landowning langur layperson lectern Leibniz lemur
lepidopterist leviathan lexicographer liana Libra Lieberman lightfooted
likeable limerick limnology linchpin Linnaeus linoleic Linton
littermate llama loanword loch Lobelia longwinded loris lorry lox
lugubrious lumbago lumberjack lycee lyre lyrebird Macadamia macaw
macerate machete MacMahon Madhya maelstrom Mafia Mafioso Magellanic
maharaja Maharashtra mainframe Majorca Malthus Malthusian maltster
mammary Manchuria mandible mango mangy mangrove manicure manifesto
manioc mannitol mantelpiece marmoset marshy marzipan matriarchy
matrilineal mayfly meadowlark megalopolis Meiji melanism meltdown
Mendelian menopausal menopause Menorca menstrual meow messiah messianic
mestizo metazoa metazoan metonymy mezzanine miaow midyear militiaman
millionfold mimicry mimosa Minotaur mocha Moghul Mohammed moldy mooch
moonbeam mortuary mosquitoes motorcade motorcar mountaintop mountebank
mousse mouthpart mozzarella mudhole Muenster mukluk Multics mummify
musky mycoplasma mycorrhiza Mysore narwhal narrowminded nawab
Nebuchadnezzar nefarious neigh nematocyst nematode neoteny nepotism
nepotistic neutronium nifty nightshade ninetyfold noisome Nordic Norse
nosy novae nucleon nudibranch numbly nurturant oatcake obstetrician
obtuse oceanographer oddball odyssey oedipal oenology offprint Ojibwa
okapi okra Olduvai Oligocene Olivier omnivore omnivorous oracular Orca
origami ornithology ostentation oviduct oviparous ovipositor
ovoviviparous ovulate ovum owlet oxbow paleoanthropology palaeontology
palp palpate Panamanian Pangaea panicking pantaloon pantothenic papacy
paralytic Paraguayan parallelogram parka Parmesan paroxysm Parsi
Parthia passarine passim passbook pathbreaking patois patrilineage
patrilineal Pavlovian pawnbroker pawpaw payload peahen pelagic pellucid
Peloponnese pencilled pendulous peninsular penumbral Pentateuch
pentatonic peon peppercorn peregrine perigee permafrost Perseid
Persephone perspicacity peter petiole pH phalanges phantasm pheromone
Phobos phosphite phosphorous phylogenetic phylum pianoforte Pict
piloerection pincer pinniped pipetting pirouetting Pizarro placemat
plait plasmid plaudit playpen plaything plebiscite plectrum pleurisy
plowmen ploy policewoman pollywog polyandrous polyandry polygamous
polygamy polygyny Polynesia polysemous polysemy pomelo pomology
ponderosa pontification postmodern potsherd Pradesh praline predacious
prehensile preparator priestess primordial probationary probosces
proboscis profiteer programmatic prokaryotic pronghorn pronominal
prosciutto proselyte prostaglandin Protista protractor Provence prude
prudish prussic pseudonym pseudonymous punctilious Punjab Punjabi
punctilio pupa pupae puree pushover pushy putdown putrefaction putrefy
putrid pyridoxine quadrupedal quadruplet quarto Queensland quern
queueing Quichua quintessence quintessential quintuplet quipped quitter
quizzed quizzing rabbinate rabbinical racemose Ragusan rainwater
rambunctious ramshackle rapacity raptor raptorial raunchy reclusive
recrudescent redolent reductio rennet returnee rhizome ricotta rife
roadrunner roguish Romanesque rootstock ropy rote Rubaiyat ruminate
runny sacristan salaam Salton salutory samurai Sanskrit Sappho
saprophyte saprophytic Sardinia sarong sashimi sauna saunter savanna
scad scaly scarp scathing Scheherazade schoolyard scrappy screenful
screwy scriptwriter scrubby scruffy seabed Seaborg seashell seawater
seaworthy sebaceous seething senescent sericulture servitude
seventyfold sextic Seychelle shaman sharecropper shebang sheepherder
shellfish shepherdess shipload Shiva shorebird shorefront shortcake
Shoshone sickbed sidestepped Sikh Sikkim silicosis simian Simla Sinbad
singleminded Sinology sixtyfold skateboard skein skeleta skinflint
skintight slapdash sleazy slink slipshod slunk slush slushy smelly
smite smote snakebite snowbank snowshoe sociolinguistic softcover
Somalia songbird sonorant soupy sowbug spartan spasmodic speciate
spermatozoon spermatozoa sphygmomanometer spillover spindly spinel
spirochaete Spirogyra spunky squatted squatter stalagmite starry
statuesque stingray stinkbug stoat storefront storytelling stratus
stupa suckle sudorific suet sugary sukiyaki supplicant supernovae
supremum surah surefire surly Svetlana swampland sweatpants sweatshop
sweatsocks sweetbread sweetie swidden swill switchback switchmen
symbiont symbiote synecdoche syphilis syphilitic tabletop tachyon
taciturn taiga taillight Talmudic tamarisk Tamil Tanganyika tankard
Tantric tapioca taproot taro tarsier taxa taxidermist taxidermy taxon
taxonomic taxonomist telltale tenderhearted testosterone thermophilic
thirdhand thirtyfold thyself teak telephoto TEX theocratic Thessalonian
Thessaly thimbleful thoracic thorax thousandfold Thrace Thracian
thumbprint thundercloud tightwad tinny tithing titmice Tito tizzy toddy
toehold tollbooth tomahawk toothache toothpick toothy topheavy toponym
toponymy torrential torpedoes toto tracheae trafficker trailblazer
trailblazing trainload transonic transudate Transvaal tremolo trillium
trilingual triphammer triploid triploidy Trobriand truckload truffle
Truk trunkful trusty tuberous tugboat turmeric tussock Tutankhamen
Tutenkhamon twelvefold twentyfold tyke tympanum Tzeltal ulna unctuous
underivable underived ungulate unisex upstage upstart upwell Urdu
urinate urology urushiol Urquhart uterus varsity vasoconstriction
venetian ventral ventriloquism ventriloquist Vesuvius Vikram
vinaigrette Vinci viper viral viscid viviparous vivisection vodka
volcanoes vole vs wagonload walla Warburton warehousemen watchworks
watercress waterfowl waterhole watertight waxwing wellwisher whalebone
wheelbarrow whey whimsy whitish whodunit whomever whoopee whorl
wildebeest wildflower windblown windswept wingbeat wingspread
wintergreen Wittgenstein wolverine woodchuck Woodstock Worcestershire
workforce wraparound wrasse wren writhing wysiwyg Xhosa yeomen yew
Yorkshire zillion zinnia zither zooplankton Zulu

(a2)  Words previously in /usr/src/usr.bin/spell/local, being added to
/usr/dict/words.  The former file is being removed (see point (f3)
below); the following words which it contained are being added to
/usr/dict/words because they are common English words not already in
that file:

	aardvark backgammon cribbage ex exec id

and the following because they seem to be of interest to the general
unix user as computer-related terms

	ascii grep login nroff termcap troff tset tty

(a3)  The next set of words are presently accepted by "spell" for
reasons which might change, and are therefore being added to
/usr/dict/words as a precaution.  For example, "microbe" is accepted as
the combination of the prefix "micro-" and the entry "be", but it might
be decided at some time in the future to revise spell so that 2-letter
words are not combined with prefixes.  Similarly, if the bug that
presently causes "happyly", "dayly" etc. to be accepted by spell were
fixed, "shyly" and "coyly" would also be rejected.

   coyly forthcoming has microbe shyly wasting

(a4)  The next set of items are not words themselves, but prefixes
which occur fairly commonly in hyphenated combinations, e.g.
"pre-Columbian".  When "spell" encounters a hyphenated word, it looks
for the separate elements, and will flag any of these that it does not
find.  Hence the following common items will be added to /usr/dict/words
even though they are not full words, because many hyphenated
combinations in which they occur are correct

	 co crypto de demi hyper Indo intra neo pre proto Sino trans un

(There are many other commonly hyphenating elements that one can think
of, but most are already in the dictionary as words, e.g. post,
Anglo, Franco, self.)

(b)  Words being deleted from /usr/dict/words:

(b1)  The following words previously in /usr/dict/words are being
removed because they are misspelled.  The correctly spelled version is
shown in parenthesis; it is included in the list of words to be
added (a1) if it is not already present:

	bellyfull (bellyful) bucketfull (bucketful) earthmen (Earthmen)
	gingko (ginkgo) belvidere (belvedere) sepuchral (sepulchral)
	snyaptic (synaptic) alterman (alderman) lukemia (leukemia)
	cardiod (cardioid) mantlepiece (mantelpiece)

(b2)  The following words are being deleted because they are not
English (nor commonly used in English contexts).  They seem to come
from titles of journals; but there are so many important journals with
Latin, German etc. titles that it would be excessive to include a
complete list of words from such titles in /usr/dict/words.  Names of
journals in particular fields might be included in local lists on
machines with users in the such fields:

	Mathematik Physik Biometrika Numerische Atlantica Econometrica
	Informatica

(b3)  The following are being deleted because "spell" can derive them
from words in /usr/dict/words (in some cases, words now being added):

Buzzard Cologne De Freedman Graves Grimes Hollandaise ID Limerick
Maelstrom Odyssey Oedipal Salaam Albanian Everglades innards intuitable
palpable collocation vis aging ambling angling belying clinging
edging presuming suckling emissivity gentility polity rebelled
rebelling rebut rebutted rebutting recent recession recur recurred
recurring reeve Reeves regale rehearse relate reman remark remedial
remember remiss remission remitted remitting Remus renegotiable repeal
repeat repent repetition replaceable report republic request requited
reredos resent reserve reside resign resin resolute resolution resolve
resonant resort respire respite restrain restrict retail retire retort
retract return reveal reverse reversion revery revet revile revise
revision revisionary revolt reward

(c)  Changes in the stoplist.
     The program "spell" will accept a word if it can be derived from a
word in its "dictionary" using certain prefixes and suffixes; e.g.  it
accepts "happiness" because "happy" is in the dictionary, "doing"
because "do" is there, "preoccupied" because "occupied" is there.  This
also leads it to accept enormous numbers of non-words, such as
"magnetohandkerchiefism", "waterly",
"overundermetasillierererererity".  Most of these are harmless, but
some are possible misspellings of correct words, and so are put into a
list called the "stoplist"; words on that list and words which can be
derived from them by the same prefixes or suffixes are rejected by
spell even if they would otherwise be accepted.

(c1)  Here are some new words to be added to the stoplist.  The end of
the list consists of forms that could be typos for commonly occurring
sequences of words, starting with "forevery", a possible typo for "for
every".
     I have not included cases that result from essential errors in the
"spell" algorithm for dealing with suffixes, e.g. the fact that it will
accept the addition of -ly to words such as "happy", "sticky", etc.
without changing the -y to -i-; these should be handled by someone who
can revise the source code.

engin crystalize crystalise reguard pennance publical renoun pepperment
spearment Dudly enroach accompanyist propagandaist revisor entier
presense acquaince plummer plumer shily defication determinancy
prerequite grammer reden redish metafor metafore presure convokable
evokable invokable revokable frolicing froliced panicing paniced wifes
wharfs shelfs Argentinan Athenan Ghanan Viennan Indochinan
foreswore foresworn foreage foreborn foreborne foreensic foreest
foreever forefit foregotten forematted forematting foremica foretress
foretune compelable denyable dutyable envyable flamable inflamable
pityable plyable remedyable varyable admirality certainity crotchity
curiousity cruelity entirity enterity fifity fraility gayity
generousity guility humbility impugnity loyality luminousity
monstrousity nicity novelity pairity piity pompousity porousity
religiousity properity rackity rickity royality scrupulousity sixity
sovereignity subtlity surity suzerainity virtuousity viscousity
assesser compresser connecter conquerer consigner contributer counseler
depresser errer exhibiter governer intercepter jurer licenser locomoter
multiplexer oppresser possesser postprocesser processer professer
purveyer senser successer suiter surveyer suspenser transgresser
forevery outin outof outthat outthe outto overthe overto underthe
underthis underthat underwhich andless areless beless forless getless
gotless hadless hasless haveless ifless inless isless muchless noless
ofless orless slightlyless somewhatless strictlyless theless wasless
wereless withless

     Incidentally, a dictionary check surprised me as to how many of
the forms in -er that I originally had scheduled to add to the
stoplist as misspellings of forms in -or are in fact acceptable.  E.g.,
Websters 2nd Int'l prefers "conveyer" to "conveyor"; a "confesser" is
one who confesses, as distinct from the "confessor" to whom he or she
gives confession; though "mayer" is a possible misspelling of "mayor",
it cannot be put on the stoplist because a "Mayer" is one who goes
Maying.
     (And our chairman John Addison Jr., looking over my list, has
suggested tongue in cheek that if you are not nice to the exterminator
people, they might "enroach" your house.)

(c2)  Next, forms that are to be *deleted* from the stoplist, because
they are in fact correct!

	inferable referable transferable tranquility idly gayly forebear

(c3)  The next two forms are presently in the stoplist but are being
deleted because, although they themselves are not correct words, the
presence of "bely" on the stoplist causes the correct derivative
"belying" (form of the verb "to belie") to be rejected, and the presence
of "ams" causes "reams" (plural of "ream") to be rejected.
	bely ams

(c4)  Finally, the next set of words, although not correct, are being
removed from the stoplist because they cannot be derived by "spell"'s
algorithms from words in the dictionary!  Deleting them will in general
have no visible effect, although it will decrease the likelihood of
certain kinds of errors by "spell", and in a few cases it will allow
correct words to be accepted.  (E.g., until now "spell" has rejected
"dishes" because it can be analyzed as "dis- + hes", where "dis-" is one
of "spell"'s prefixes, and "hes" was on the stoplist.  After this
cleaning out, "hes" will be off the stoplist, and "dishes" will be
accepted.)

ator audable bes besoting cheator collapsable colourate colourful
combustable comprehensable condensable controvertable credable
defensable diffusable dispersable distributory doged doger doging eator
edable enbolden entrapable entraped entraper entraping erosable
expansable extensable feasable foable forety fusable glomed glumer
glumest greator heator hes hily horrable iily imperceptable implausable
inaccessable inaudable incombustable incompatable incomprehensable
incontrovertable incorruptable incredable indefensable indelable
indestructable indigestable indiscernable inexhaustable inexpressable
infallable infeasable inflexable infusable insensable irresistable
irresponsable irreversable lader moter nes notory ostensable outgaser
padable pily plausable plugable preseter preseting refited refiter
refiting reknited rekniter rekniting reprehensable responsable
reversable risable ruber rubing secretory sensable setable shipable
slank spotable stagging stopable subletable subleted subleter subleting
susceptable swimable terrable tily vily visable wetable xily revved

(d)  Changes involving the British and American lists.
     "Spell" has two wordlists not yet mentioned, one for spellings
occurring only in British usage (e.g. "gaol"), which are accepted only
when the -b option is used, the other for spellings occurring only in
American usage, which are accepted only when the -b option is not used.

(d1)  The following forms are being added to the "American" list.  (The
forms corresponding to those in the first line with the ending -logue
or the vowel "-ae-" are already in /usr/dict/words, since they are
acceptable in both British and American usage.  The forms corresponding
to those in the second line with the ending -metre are already in the
British list.)
	dialog epilog homolog prolog travelog esthetic paleontology
	centimeter nanometer

(d2)  The following words are being added to the "British" list.  Those
in the first line are variants of words already in the "American" list;
those in the next, of words in /usr/dict/words or derivable therefrom;
the last word is the British name for the variety of turnip we here
call a "rutabaga".  (Although the British and American lists in general
are supposed to reflect differences in spelling, not in word usage, I
am putting this in the British list because in an American text it
would almost always be a typo for "Swede".)

	theatregoer theatregoing aluminise hiccough
	clew shew reflexion inflexion deflexion
	swede

(d3) The words in the first group below are being moved from
/usr/dict/words to the "American" list, and corresponding British
forms shown in the second group are being put in the British list
(except that "gaol" and "behavioural" are already there, and "grey",
presently in /usr/dict/words because it is acceptable in America,
will remain there):

	hemoglobin hemolytic hemorrhage hemorrhoid hemosiderin
	leukemia kinesthesis cognizant decolonize topologize
	carburetor jail gray graybeard graywacke behavioral

	haemoglobin haemolytic haemorrhage haemorrhoid haemosiderin
	leukaemia kinaesthesis cognisant decolonise topologise
	carburettor [gaol] [grey] greybeard greywacke [behavioural]


(d4)  The following words are being removed from the American list, the
first three because they can be derived from other words on the list,
the last one because it is a typographical error (missing h) for a word
elsewhere on the list:
	preprogram colorist watercolorist
	psycoanalyze

(d5)  The words on the first line below are being removed from the
British list because they are derivable from other words on the list;
the word on the next line appears twice, and one of the occurrences
(the one out of alphabetical order) are being removed:
	kilometre preprogramme chequer colourist watercolourist
	millimetre

(d6)  The word in the first line below is in both /usr/dict/words
and the American list.  It is being removed from /usr/dict/words,
and the British spelling, shown in the second line, is being put
in the British list.
	louver
	louvre

(d7)  The following word is being moved from the stoplist to the
British list:
	colourful

(d8)  The following word is being removed from the stoplist; it was put
there as an incorrect plural of "emphasis", but it is also the correct
British version of the verb-form "emphasizes", and its presence on the
stoplist keeps that from being accepted with the -b option:
	emphasises

(d9) The next two words are being moved from the British list to
/usr/dict/words, since I believe that in some contexts they are
acceptable in American use
	draught nought

(d10)  The word below is being removed from /usr/dict/words, since it
can be derived with the -b option in effect (and the corresponding
American form when -b is not in effect) from the word "real".
	realisable

(d11)  The words in the first line below are being added to the
American list and the versions in the next line to the British list
	hemophilia hemophiliac cognize pasteurize dichotomize
	haemophilia haemophiliac cognise pasteurise dichotomise
In conjunction with this, the word
	cognizable
is being deleted from /usr/dict/words, since it and the British form
in -s- can be derived by "spell" from the corresponding forms
without "-able".

(e)  Some misorderings of /usr/dict/words, involving words introduced
last year, are being removed; the file now shows as correctly ordered
using sort -cdf.

(f)  Some changes are also being made in the arrangement of wordlist
files themselves.

(f1)  /usr/src/usr.bin/spell/{american,british,stop} are being made
visible to the general user as /usr/dict/{american,british,stop}.

(f2)  A new directory, /usr/dict/special is being created, which will
contain lists of words in various specialized areas, which might be
added to spell's hashlists on machines having users in those fields.
(However, the most important terms of various specialties will still be
kept in /usr/dict/words.)  Two files are being put in this directory
initially: /usr/dict/special/math, consisting of mathematical terms
to technical for /usr/dict/words, and /usr/dict/special/4bsd, consisting
of unix commands and system calls, created by a sed script from
a listing of /usr/man/man[123n], and the items marked for boldfacing
in /usr/man/man1/csh.1.

(f3)  /usr/src/usr.bin/spell/local  is being eliminated.  This was
an out-of-date version of the material now being put in
/usr/dict/special/4bsd.  It was hashed with the other wordlists,
while the latter file will only be included with these on machines
where this is desired.

(f4)  A directory /usr/local/dict is being created, on which each
machine can maintain lists of interest to the users thereof (e.g., for
a departmental machine, the surnames of members of the department's
faculty which are not in /usr/dict/words; and perhaps lists being
developed, which could eventually be submitted for inclusion in
/usr/dict/special).
