.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.TH FSTOBDF 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
fstobdf - BDF font generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "fstobdf"
-fn \fIfontname\fP [-option ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIfstobdf\fP program reads a font from a font server and prints a BDF
file on the standard output that may be used to recreate the font.
This is useful in testing servers, debugging font metrics, and reproducing 
lost BDF files.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-server \fIservername\fP
This option specifies the server from which the font should be read.
.TP 8
.B \-fn \fIfontname\fP
This option specifies the font for which a BDF file should be generated.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fs(1), bdftosnf(1), fslsfonts(1), xtobdf(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1990, Network Computing Devices
.br
.sp
Copyright 1990, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Olaf Brandt, Network Computing Devices
.br
Dave Lemke, Network Computing Devices
.br
.sp
Jim Fulton, MIT X Consortium
