.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.de EX		\"Begin example
.ne 5
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
.nf
.in +.5i
..
.de EE
.fi
.in -.5i
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
..
.TH PLBPEX 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
plbpex \- picture level benchmark program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B plbpex [-options] verb_file_name(s)

.SH DESCRIPTION
Plbpex is used to view PEX graphics in the GPC, or Graphics Performance
Characterization suite.  To run it, you must be in the same directory as
a verb command, or *.vrb file.  Some of these are located in the directories
demos/gpc/objects, tests, and benchmarks. You must have write permission in
that directory because the program will be creating and writing to an 
error file.  Type:

host% ../plbpex [-display geometry bd bg bw hlsr buff] filename

The filenme must be one of the .vrb files located in the objects directory.

.SH OPTIONS
    -display displaystring         X server to connect to
    -geometry geomstring           size and location
    -bd color                      border color
    -bg color                      background color
    -bw pixels                     border width
    -hlhsr mode                    one of the following:
                   NONE ZBUFF PAINTERS SCANLINE LINE
    -buff mode                     one of the following:
                                       SINGLE DOUBLE
    -h                             this message

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
PEX-SI User Guide in doc/extensions/PEX/SI/User_Guide

.SH BUGS
plbpex may crash due to color allocation problems when a window manage
is running.
.LP
pex only implements hlhsr value none.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1991, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

