.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.TH XREFRESH 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xrefresh - refresh all or part of an X screen
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xrefresh"
[-option ...] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Xrefresh
is a simple X program that causes all or part of your screen to be repainted.
This is useful when system messages have messed up your screen.
.I Xrefresh
maps a window on top of the desired area of the screen and then immediately
unmaps it, 
causing refresh events to be sent to all applications.  By default,
a window with no background is used, causing all applications to repaint
``smoothly.''
However, the various options can be used to indicate that a solid background 
(of any color) or the root window background should be used instead.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP 10
.B \-white
Use a white background.  The screen just appears to flash quickly, and then
repaint.
.PP
.TP 10
.B \-black
Use a black background (in effect, turning off all of the electron guns to
the tube).  This can be somewhat disorienting as everything goes black for
a moment.
.PP
.TP 10
.B \-solid \fIcolor\fP
Use a solid background of the specified color.  Try green.
.PP
.TP 10
.B \-root
Use the root window background.
.PP
.TP 10
.B \-none
This is the default.  All of the windows simply repaint.
.PP
.TP 10
.B \-geometry \fIWxH+X+Y\fP
Specifies the portion of the screen to be repainted; see \fIX(1)\fP.
.PP
.TP 10
.B \-display \fIdisplay\fP
This  argument  allows  you  to  specify the server and screen to
refresh; see \fIX(1)\fP.
.SH X DEFAULTS
The
.I xrefresh
program uses the routine 
.I XGetDefault(3X)
to read defaults, so its resource names are all capitalized.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Black\fP, \fBWhite\fP, \fBSolid\fP, \fBNone\fP, \fBRoot\fP
Determines what sort of window background to use.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Geometry
Determines the area to refresh.  Not very useful.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
DISPLAY - To get default host and display number.
.SH SEE ALSO
X(1)
.SH BUGS
.PP
It should have just one default type for the background.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1988, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHORS
Jim Gettys, Digital Equipment Corp., MIT Project Athena
