.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: a.out.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/15 20:10:29 $
.\"
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright Unpublished, MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.  All Rights |
.\" | Reserved.  This software contains proprietary and confidential |
.\" | information of MIPS and its suppliers.  Use, disclosure or     |
.\" | reproduction is prohibited without the prior express written   |
.\" | consent of MIPS.                                               |
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Portions of this manual carry the Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of
.\" the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" $Header: /usr/doc/osf1doc/refpages/rcs/src/BASE/DEC/man4/a.out.4,v 3.2.4.2 1993/12/15 20:10:29 Blaise_Corcoran Exp $
.TH a.out 4
.SH NAME
\*La.out\*O \- Assembler and link editor output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <a.out.h>\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "a.out output file"
.iX "assembler output file"
.iX "link editor output file"
.B a.out
is the output file format of the assembler \*Las\*O(1) and the link editor
\*Lld\*O(1). Both programs make
.B a.out
executable if there were no
errors and no unresolved external references.  The debugger uses the
.B a.out
file to provide symbolic information to the user.
.PP
The compilers and operating systems use a
file format that is similar to
standard \s-1AT&T\s0 System V \s-1COFF\s0 (common
object file format).
.\"   For more information,
.\" see the
.\" .I MIPS Assembly Language Programmer's Guide.
.PP
The File Header definition is based on the \s-1AT&T\s0 System V header file
\*Vfilehdr.h\*O
with the following changes (also see \*Lfilehdr\*O(4)):
.ML
.LI
The symbol table file pointer,
\*Vf_symptr,\*O
and the number of symbol table entries,
\*Vf_nsyms,\*O
now specify the file pointer and the size of the
Symbolic Header respectively.
.LI
All tables that specify symbolic information have their file
pointers and number of entries in the Symbolic Header.
.LE
.PP
The Optional Header definition has
the same format as the \s-1AT&T\s0 System V header
file
\*Vaouthdr.h\*O
(the ``standard'' (pre-\s-1COFF\s0) \s-1UNIX\s0 system a.out header) except
the following fields have been added:
\*V bss_start, gprmask, cprmask,\*O
and
\*Vgp_value.\*O
.PP
The Section Header definition has the same
format as the \s-1AT&T\s0 System V header
file
\*Vscnhdr.h,\*O
except the line number fields
.RI ( s_lnnoptr
and
.IR s_nlnno )
are used for gp tables (see \*Lscnhdr\*O(4)).
.PP
The relocation information definition is similar to that in
Berkeley 4.3 \s-1UNIX\s0, which has ``local'' relocation types (see
\*Lreloc\*O(4)).
.\" Also see the section entitled ``Section Relocation Information'' in the
.\" chapter 10 of the
.\" .I "\s-1MIPS\s0 Assembly Language Programmer's Guide"
.\" for the most detailed information.
.\" .LP
.\" For more information
.\" about \s-1AT&T\s0 System V \s-1COFF\s0, refer
.\" to the \s-1AT&T\s0 \s-1UNIX\s0 System
.\" V Support Tools Guide.
.PP
The file format follows this scheme:
.ML
.LI
File Header
.LI
Optional Header
.LI
Section Headers
.LI
Section Data\(emincludes text, read-only data, large data, 8- and 4-byte
literal pools, small data, small bss (0 size), and large bss (0 size).
As well as the shared library information.
.LI
Section Relocation Information\(emincludes information for text, read-only data,
large data, 8- and 4-byte literal pools, and small data.
.LI
Gp tables\(emmissing if relocation information is not saved.
.LI
Symbolic Header\(emmissing if fully stripped.
.LI
Line Numbers\(emcreated only if debugging is on, and missing if stripped of
nonglobals or fully stripped.
.LI
Procedure Descriptor Table\(emmissing if fully stripped.
.LI
Local Symbols\(emmissing if stripped of nonglobals or if fully stripped.
.LI
Optimization Symbols\(emcreated only if debugging is on, and missing if
stripped of nonglobals or fully stripped.
.LI
Auxiliary Symbols\(emcreated only if debugging is on, and missing if
stripped of nonglobals or fully stripped.
.LI
Local Strings\(emmissing if stripped of nonglobals or if fully stripped.
.LI
External Strings\(emmissing if fully stripped.
.LI
Relative File Descriptors\(emmissing if stripped of nonglobals or if fully stripped.
.LI
File Descriptors\(emmissing if stripped of nonglobals or if fully stripped.
.LI
External Symbols\(emmissing is fully stripped.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Llinenum\*O(4), \*Lfilehdr\*O(4), \*Lreloc\*O(4), \*Lscnhdr\*O(4),
\*Lsyms\*O(4).
.br
\*Las\*O(1), \*Ldbx\*O(1), \*Lld\*O(1), \*Lnm\*O(1), \*Lstrip\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
