.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" 
.\" created 6-16-92 per note of D. Parker	
.\"
.TH acucap 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lacucap\*O \- Automatic call unit capabilities file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/etc/acucap\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "acucap file"
.iX "files" "acucap"
The \*L/etc/acucap\*O
file lists the types of autodial modems
and describes their attributes.  Whenever \*Ltip\*O
encounters an \*Lat\*O field in \*L/etc/remote\*O file description, it
searches \*L/etc/acucap\*O
file description.
.PP
If the \*Lat\*O string there matches a name entry in \*L/etc/acucap\*O,
the \*Ltip\*O generic dialing routine
places an outgoing call according to the attributes specified for the modem
in the \*Lacucap\*O file.
.PP
Each line in the file describes how to
dial a given type of modem.  This description consists of strings, time delays,
and flags used to control the action of any modem.
Fields are separated by a colon (\*L:\*O).
Entries that end in a backslash character (\*L\e\*O) followed by a newline are
continued on the next line.
.PP
The first entry is the name or names of the modem.  If there is more
than one name for a modem, each is separated by a vertical bar (\*L|\*O).
There cannot be any blank spaces or other characters between
the first column and the modem name.
.PP
The fields of the description follow the name.  A
field name followed by an equal sign (\*L=\*O) indicates
that a string value follows.  A field
name followed by a pound sign (\*L#\*O) indicates that a numeric value
follows.  A field
name followed by the separating colon (\*L:\*O) represents a Boolean.
.SH CAPABILITIES
.PP
The fields following the name of the modem define the capabilities
of the modem.
Capabilities are either strings (\*Vstr\*O), numbers (\*Vnum\*O), or Boolean
flags (\*Vbool\*O).  A string capability is of the form:
.iS
\*Vcapability\*O=\*Vvalue\*O
.iE
.PP
An example is:
.iS
ss=^A^B
.iE
.PP
A numeric capability is of the form:
.iS
\*Vcapability\*O#\*Vvalue\*O
.iE
.PP
An example is:
.iS
sd#1
.iE
.PP
A Boolean capability is specified simply by listing it.
Strings that are not specified cause nothing to be issued.
The following are available capabilities:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lab\*O"
(\*Vstr\*O)
Abort string.  This string is sent to the
modem if \*Ltip\*O is aborted.
.LI "\*Lcd\*O"
(\*Vnum\*O)
Completion delay.  This number gives the time to wait
between completion string
characters (in seconds, unless the \*Lls\*O
Boolean is specified).
.LI "\*Lcr\*O"
(\*Vbool\*O)
Setting this Boolean causes the program to
wait in the generic dial routine until the modem senses
a carrier.
.LI "\*Lco\*O"
(\*Vstr\*O)
A modem command string which instructs the modem to change from the
default speed to the speed specified by the \*Lxs\*O field.
.LI "\*Lcs\*O"
(\*Vstr\*O)
Completion string.  The modem issues this string after
receiving and responding to synchronization
and dial strings.
.LI "\*Lda\*O"
(\*Vnum\*O)
Dial acknowledge.  This number gives the time
to wait before looking for a dial
response (in seconds).
.LI "\*Ldb\*O"
(\*Vbool\*O)
Debug mode.  Setting this Boolean causes the generic
dialer to give more information as it dials.
.LI "\*Ldd\*O"
(\*Vnum\*O)
Dial delay.  This number gives the time
between dial characters (in seconds) unless the \*Lls\*O
Boolean is specified.
.LI "\*Ldi\*O"
(\*Vstr\*O)
Dial initialization.  This string is used to start a dialing sequence
(placed just before the number to dial.)
.LI "\*Ldr\*O"
(\*Vstr\*O)
Dial response.  The modem sends this string
if a dialing sequence
that was just issued is successful.
.LI "\*Lds\*O"
(\*Vstr\*O)
Disconnect string.  This string is sent to
the modem when \*Ltip\*O
is finally disconnected.
.LI "\*Ldt\*O"
(\*Vstr\*O)
Dial termination.  This string is used to terminate a dialing
sequence (placed just after the number to dial.)
.LI "\*Lfd\*O"
(\*Vnum\*O)
Full delay.  This number is the time
to wait for a carrier to be detected
(in seconds).  If the call is not completed in this time,
an error is returned.
.LI "\*Lhu\*O"
(\*Vbool\*O)
This Boolean causes the modem to hang up the phone if
the line goes away.
.LI "\*Lis\*O"
(\*Vnum\*O)
This number specifies the speed at which the modem must be initialized.
The conversation speed will later be set as specified by
the \*Lxs\*O field.
.LI "\*Lls\*O"
(\*Vbool\*O)
Use an internal sleep routine
rather than \*Lsleep\*O(3)
for delays.  Thus, all delays are given in microseconds rather
than seconds.
.LI "\*Los\*O"
(\*Vstr\*O)
Online string.  The modem sends this string after carrier has been
detected.
.LI "\*Lrd\*O"
(\*Vbool\*O)
Causes a 1-second delay after toggling \*Ldtr\*O (data terminal ready).
This action will only be taken if \*Lre\*O is also set.
.LI "\*Lre\*O"
(\*Vbool\*O)
This Boolean causes the modem to toggle \*Ldtr\*O (data terminal ready)
before beginning synchronization.
It is used to reset the present condition of the modem.
.LI "\*Lrs\*O"
(\*Vstr\*O)
Replacement string.  This string is a single character that will be
substituted for an equal sign (\*L=\*O) or dash (\*L-\*O) in the
number to be dialed; used so
that delay characters can be represented uniformly, but
allowing the correct delay character to be passed to
a given modem.
.LI "\*Lsd\*O"
(\*Vnum\*O)
Synchronization delay.  This number gives the time
between synchronization
characters (in seconds unless the \*Lls\*O
Boolean is specified.)
.LI "\*Lsi\*O"
(\*Vbool\*O)
This modem is attached to an interface that cannot return
any characters until carrier is detected.  Digital's
DMF32 interface acts in this way.
.LI "\*Lsr\*O"
(\*Vstr\*O)
Synchronization response.  What the modem sends in response
to a synchronization string.
.LI "\*Lss\*O"
(\*Vstr\*O)
Synchronization string.
The first string the modem expects to receive; a check to
see if the modem is operating.
.LI "\*Lxs\*O"
(\*Vnum\*O)
Specifies the speed the modem will operate at after initialization at
the default speed in the \*Lis\*O field.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example shows an entry for a Digital DF03
modem:
.iS
df03|DF03|dec df03:\e
	:cr:hu:re:di=^A^B:dd#1:os=A:ds=^A:fd#40:
.iE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Ltip\*O(1), \*Lsleep\*O(3).
.PP
Files: \*Lremote\*O(4).
.\" Shared autodial modem data base
.EQ
delim off
.EN
