.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: advfs.4,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.8 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 00:31:00 $
.\"
.TH advfs 4
.PP
.\"
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ladvfs\*O \- A local file system and utilities
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "Crash recovery"
The POLYCENTER Advanced File System (AdvFS) is a file system option on the DEC
OSF/1 operating system.  The Advanced File System provides rapid crash
recovery, high performance, and a flexible structure that enables you to
manage your file system while it is on line.
.PP
An optional set of utilities is available for AdvFS that expands the
capabilities of the file system.  The POLYCENTER Advanced File System
Utilities provide functions such as adding volumes without reconfiguring
the directory hierarchy of the file system, cloning filesets, and
improving system performance with file defragmentation and file
striping.
.PP
The Advanced File System component is licensed with the DEC OSF/1
operating system and is available as an optional subset during
installation.  The POLYCENTER Advanced File System Utilities is
available as a separately licensed layered product.
.PP
Using journaling techniques, AdvFS
provides faster crash recovery than the UNIX file
system (ufs), which implements crash recovery using the \*Lfsck\*O utility.
.PP
In addition to fast restarts, AdvFS ensures that file
structures are recovered consistently; extends file and fileset sizes to
greater than 2 gigabytes; creates, deletes, and renames files faster than UFS;
and provides enhanced backup utilities (\*Lvdump\*O and \*Lvrestore\*O).
.PP
AdvFS introduces file system concepts that are unknown in
the UNIX file system. Mastering the following concepts prepares you for
planning, creating, and maintaining the Advanced File System:
.ML
.LI
.iX "Volume" "described"
.iX "Logical Volume Manager
Volumes
.sp \n()Pu
A volume is any mechanism that behaves like a UNIX block device, such as a
logical volume that is configured with the Logical Volume Manager (LVM)
or Logical Storage Manager (LSM), a
magnetic disk, or a disk partition.
.LI
.iX "File domain" "described"
File Domain
.sp \n()Pu
A file domain is a named set of one or more volumes that provides a shared
storage pool for one or more filesets (see filesets below).
.sp \n()Pu
When you create a file domain using the \*Lmkfdmn\*O command, you must specify
a domain name and one initial volume.  The \*Lmkfdmn\*O command creates a
subdirectory in the \*Lfdmns\*O directory for each new file domain. The
file-domain subdirectory contains a symbolic link to the initial volume.
.sp \n()Pu
You can add additional volumes to an existing file domain by using the
\*Laddvol\*O utility.  With each added volume, the \*Laddvol\*O utility
creates a new symbolic link in the appropriate file-domain subdirectory of the
\*Lfdmns\*O directory.
.LI
.iX "Fileset" "described"
Filesets
.sp \n()Pu
A fileset is both the logical file structure that the user recognizes and a
unit that you can mount.  Whereas you typically mount a whole UNIX file
system, with the Advanced File System you mount the individual filesets of a
file domain. A single-volume file domain containing one fileset is equivalent
to a UNIX file system.
.sp \n()Pu
An Advanced File System consists of a file domain with at least one fileset
that you create using the \*Lmkfset\*O command.  For each fileset, the
\*Lmkfset\*O command creates a \*L.tags\*O directory. The \*L.tags\*O directory
is a permanent directory that is reserved for future use. You cannot delete,
rename, or add any files to the \*L.tags\*O directory.
.LI
.iX "Clone fileset" "described"
Clone Fileset
.sp \n()Pu
A clone fileset is a read-only copy of an existing fileset, which you can mount
as you do other filesets. You create a clone fileset by using the
\*Lclonefset\*O utility. The reason you create and mount a clone fileset is to
perform an online backup of the existing fileset.
.sp \n()Pu
A clone fileset is a snapshot of the original fileset, capturing and fixing the
original fileset at a moment in time.  Any changes you make to the original
fileset will not appear in its clone. For instance, new files added to the
original fileset will not appear in the clone.  Changes to data in files in
the original fileset will not appear in the clone. Also, files that you remove
from the original fileset will remain accessible in the clone under the names
they had when you created the clone fileset.
.LE
.PP
A UNIX file system corresponds to a disk partition and is, therefore, limited
by the size restrictions of that disk. In contrast, filesets can span all
volumes in the file domain.
.nP
The POLYCENTER Advanced File System (AdvFS) is licensed with the DEC OSF/1 operating
system. The following list describes AdvFS commands:
.sp 6p
.iX "Commands" "listed"
.iX "-; specific command" "Commands"
.VL 8m
.LI "\*Lchfile\*O"
Changes the attributes of a file. See \*Lchfile\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lchfsets\*O"
Changes the attributes of a fileset.  See \*Lchfsets\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lchvol\*O"
Changes the attributes of a volume. See \*Lchvol\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lmkfdmn\*O"
Creates a new file domain. See \*Lmkfdmn\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lmkfset\*O"
Creates a fileset within an existing file domain. See \*Lmkfset\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lrmfset\*O"
Deletes a fileset from a file domain. See \*Lrmfset\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lrmvol\*O"
Removes a volume from an existing file domain.  See \*Lrmvol\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lshowfdmn\*O"
Displays domain attributes. See \*Lshowfdmn\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lshowfile\*O"
Displays attributes for files in an Advanced File System. See
\*Lshowfile\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lshowfsets\*O"
Displays information about the filesets in a domain. See
\*Lshowfsets\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lvdump\*O"
Backs up filesets.  See
\*Lvdump\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lvedquota\*O"
Edits the user or group quotas.  See
\*Lvedquota\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lvncheck\*O"
Creates a list of files on specified filesets, including the path names
and i-numbers.  See
\*Lvncheck\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lvquot\*O"
Summarizes fileset ownership.  See
\*Lvquot\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lvquota\*O"
Displays disk usage and limits.  See
\*Lvquota\*O(1).
.LI "\*Lvquotaon\*O"
Turns on user and group quotas.  See
\*Lvquotaon\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lvquotaoff\*O"
Turns off user and group quotas.  See
\*Lvquotaoff\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lvrepquota\*O"
Summarizes the disk usage and quotas for specified filesets.  See
\*Lvrepquota\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lvrestore\*O"
Restores files from devices written with the
\*Lvdump\*O command.  See
\*Lvrestore\*O(8).
.LE
.PP
The POLYCENTER Advanced File System Utilities are licensed separately from the
base file
system and must be purchased separately.  They are contained on the
DEC Layered Products CDROM.  The following list describes the POLYCENTER
Advanced File System Utilities:
.sp 6p
.iX "Utilities" "listed"
.iX "-; specific utility" "Utilities"
.VL 8m
.LI "\*Laddvol\*O"
Adds a volume to an existing file domain. See \*Laddvol\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lbalance\*O"
Balances the percentage of used space between volumes. See \*Lbalance\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lclonefset\*O"
Creates a read-only copy of a fileset. See \*Lclonefset\*O(8).
.LI "\*Ldefragment\*O"
Makes the files in a file domain more contiguous. See \*Ldefragment\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lmigrate\*O"
Moves the location of a file within a file domain.  See \*Lmigrate\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lmktrashcan\*O"
Attaches directories to a trashcan directory, which stores deleted files.  See
\*Lmktrashcan\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lrmtrashcan\*O"
Detaches a specified directory from a trashcan directory. See
\*Lmktrashcan\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lshtrashcan\*O"
Shows the trashcan directory, if any, that is attached to a specified
directory. See \*Lmktrashcan\*O(8).
.LI "\*Lstripe\*O"
Distributes a file evenly across several volumes within a file domain.  See
\*Lstripe\*O(8).
.LE
.SH RESTRICTION
.PP
The Advanced File System does not provide \*Lroot\*O (\*L/\*O) directory
support.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLE
.iX "File domain" "creating"
.PP
The following example creates a file domain called
\*Laccounts_dmn\*O, which contains \*Lrz1c\*O as the initial volume. The
example also creates two filesets,
\*Lcredit_fs\*O and \*Ldebit_fs\*O and mounts both filesets.
.oS
# mkfdmn /dev/rz1c accounts_dmn
# mkfset accounts_dmn credit_fs
# mkfset accounts_dmn debit_fs
# mkdir /mnt/credit /mnt/debit
# mount -t advfs accounts_dmn#credit_fs /mnt/credit
# mount -t advfs accounts_dmn#debit_fs /mnt/debit
.oE
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.\" 
.\" format = \*Ldefgh_refpg\*O(1), etc
.\"
.\" Un/comment related manpgs as approp.
.\" 
.\" \*Laddvol\*O(8),
\*Ladvfs_err\*O(4),
\*Lfdmns\*O(4),
\*Lmkfdmn\*O(8),
.\"
\*Lmkfset\*O(8),
.\"
\*Lmkdir\*O(1),
\*Lmount\*O(8).
.iX "-: Displaying" "Listing"
.iX "-: Fileset" "File system"
.iX "-: File domain" "Domain"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
