.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: advfs_err.4,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/17 20:06:00 $
.\"
.TH advfs_err 4
.PP
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ladvfs_err\*O \- Lists and describes error messages
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "Error Messages"
This following list provides the error number and a brief description of
the error:
.VL 4m
.LI "(-1026)"
\*LEHANDLE_OVF\*O
.nL
Out of memory.
.LI "(-1029)"
\*LEDUP_VD\*O
.nL
The volume is already in use by a domain.
.LI "(-1030)"
\*LEBAD_VDI\*O
.nL
The specified volume index is not a valid index in the domain.
.LI "(-1031)"
\*LENO_SUCH_DOMAIN\*O
.nL
The specified domain does not exist.
.LI "(-1033)"
\*LENO_MORE_DOMAINS\*O
.nL
The maximum number of file domains are active; cannot activate another file
domain.
.LI "(-1035)"
\*LE_PAGE_NOT_MAPPED\*O
.nL
The specified file page is not allocated and does not exist.
.LI "(-1036)"
\*LENO_XTNTS\*O
.nL
An advfs internal error when opening a file causes file storage to be
inaccessible.
.LI "(-1040)"
\*LENO_MORE_BLKS\*O
.nL
The domain is out of disk space.
.LI "(-1041)"
\*LENOT_SUPPORTED\*O
.nL
The requested function is not currently supported.
.LI "(-1042)"
\*LEBAD_PARAMS\*O
.nL
Invalid parameters were passed to the kernel.  The likely cause
is that the command or utility belongs to a previous version
of the product, while the system is running a later version.
.LI "(-1054)"
\*LENO_MORE_MEMORY\*O
.nL
The file system (advfs) ran out of memory.
.LI "(-1055)"
\*LENO_MORE_MCELLS\*O
.nL
A file descriptor could not be allocated.  The system is most likely
out of disk space.
.LI "(-1056)"
\*LEALREADY_ALLOCATED\*O
.nL
Attempt to add storage to a file at a specified page offset and the page at that
offset already exists.
.LI "(-1065)"
\*LE_CANT_ACCESS_LOG\*O
.nL
An error occurred while creating the file domain transaction log, initializing
the file domain transaction log, or both.  Since you cannot use the file
domain, you must recreate it.
.LI "(-1067)"
\*LE_DOMAIN_NOT_ACTIVATED\*O
.nL
The file domain is not active; it must be active to perform the requested
function.
.LI "(-1070)"
\*LE_BAD_VERSION\*O
.nL
The command or utility version does not match the advfs kernel version.
See EBAD_PARAMS (-1042).
.LI "(-1079)"
\*LE_VD_DMNATTR_DIFF\*O
.nL
Some of the disks listed in \*Lfdmns\*O directory for the file domain do not
belong to the file domain.  The \*Lfdmns\*O directory entry for this
file domain is invalid.
.LI "(-1080)"
\*LE_MUST_BE_ROOT\*O
.nL
You must have root privilege to perform the requested function.
.LI "(-1086)"
\*LE_DOMAIN_ALREADY_EXISTS\*O
.nL
The specified file domain already exists.
.LI "(-1093)"
\*LE_NO_SUCH_BF_SET\*O
.nL
The specified fileset does not exist.
.LI "(-1095)"
\*LE_TOO_MANY_BF_SETS\*O
.nL
The maximum number of filesets are mounted.  Cannot mount the fileset.
.LI "(-1100)"
\*LE_TOO_MANY_ACCESSORS\*O
.nL
The fileset is active (mounted).  The fileset must be inactive (unmounted)
to perform the requested function.
.LI "(-1107)"
\*LE_BAD_DEV\*O
.nL
The file domain volume is an invalid device.
.LI "(-1108)"
\*LE_ADVFS_NOT_INSTALLED\*O
.nL
The file system (advfs) is not installed or it is installed but the new
kernel (vmunix) is not currently running; in the latter case,  you need to
reboot the system to complete the advfs installation.
.LI "(-1114)"
\*LE_READ_ONLY\*O
.nL
The file set is read only.
.LI "(-1115)"
\*LE_TOO_MANY_CLONES\*O
.nL
The specified fileset has the maximum number of clone filesets.  You cannot
create another clone fileset.
.LI "(-1117)"
\*LE_HAS_CLONE\*O
.nL
The original fileset has a clone fileset.  The original fileset must not have
a clone fileset to perform the requested function.
.LI "(-1120)"
\*LE_QUOTA_NOT_ENABLED\*O
.nL
The quota type is not enabled.
.LI "(-1121)"
\*LE_IO\*O
.nL
I/O error detected.
.LI "(-1122)"
\*LE_NO_MORE_DQUOTS\*O
.nL
Out of memory.
.LI "(-1124)"
\*LE_DUPLICATE_SET\*O
.nL
The fileset already exists.
.LI "(-1125)"
\*LE_CANT_CLONE_A_CLONE\*O
.nL
You cannot create a clone fileset from a clone fileset.
.LI "(-1126)"
\*LE_ACCESS_DENIED\*O
.nL
Permission denied for the requested function.
.LI "(-1130)"
\*LE_CANT_MIGRATE_HOLE\*O
.nL
An attempt to migrate a sparse file page range and all the pages in the
range do not exist.
.LI "(-1132)"
\*LE_MIGRATE_IN_PROGRESS\*O
.nL
An attempt to migrate a file failed because another thread is already migrating
the file.  Only one active migrate is allowed for a specified file.
.LI "(-1135)"
\*LE_INVALID_FS_VERSION\*O
.nL
The installed version of advfs is not compatible with the on-disk file domain.
.LI "(-1136)"
\*LE_INVALID_ADVFS_STRUCT\*O
.nL
The on-disk file domain structures are invalid.
.LI "(-1145)"
\*LE_TOO_MANY_VIRTUAL_DISKS\*O
.nL
The maximum number of volumes per domain has been reached.
.LI "(-1162)"
\*LENO_NAME\*O
.nL
The file system (advfs) cannot generate the path name of a file because the
original path name has been deleted.
.LI "(-1163)"
\*LEDIR_NOT_ADVFS\*O
.nL
A trashcan operation was attempted on a non-advfs directory.
.LI "(-1164)"
\*LEUNDEL_DIR_NOT_ADVFS\*O
.nL
A user attempted to use a non-advfs directory for a trashcan.
.LI "(-1165)"
\*LEDUPLICATE_DIRS\*O
.nL
A user attempted to attach a directory to itself as a trashcan.
.LI "(-1166)"
\*LEDIFF_FILE_SETS\*O
.nL
A user attempted to attach a trashcan to a directory in a different fileset.
A trashcan must be in the same fileset as the directory.
.LI "(-1167)"
\*LE_BAD_MAGIC\*O
.nL
The specified disks do not contain a valid advfs file domain.
.LI "(-1168)"
\*LE_BAD_PAGESIZE\*O
.nL
An advfs internal error when opening a file causes the file storage to be
inaccessible.
.LI "(-1169)"
\*LE_NO_DMN_VOLS\*O
.nL
The file domain contains no volumes.
.LI "(-1173)"
\*LE_NO_UNDEL_DIR\*O
.nL
A user attempted to remove a trashcan from a directory that has no trashcan.
.LI "(-1174)"
\*LE_QUOTA_NOT_MAINTAINED\*O
.nL
The quota type is not maintained.
.LI "(-1175)"
\*LE_BMT_NOT_EMPTY\*O
.nL
An attempt to remove a volume failed because the contents of the inode table
could not be moved off of the volume.
.LI "(-1176)"
\*LE_ROOT_TAGDIR_ON_VOL\*O
.nL
An attempt to remove a volume failed because the \*Lroot\*O tag directory is located
on the specified volume and could not be moved off of the volume.
.LI "(-1177)"
\*LE_LOG_ON_VOL\*O
.nL
An attempt to remove a volume failed because the log is located on the specified
volume and could not be moved off of the volume.
.LI "(-1182)"
\*LE_ALREADY_STRIPED\*O
.nL
An attempt to stripe a file that is already striped.
.LI "(-1183)"
\*LE_NO_CLONE_STG\*O
.nL
An attempt to migrate a clone but the clone has no storage of its own.
.LI "(-1184)"
\*LE_BAD_PAGE_RANGE\*O
.nL
The specified page range is not valid.
.LI "(-1185)"
\*LE_INVOLUNTARY_ABORT\*O
.nL
A migrate operation has been aborted by another thread.  For example, a remove
volume operation can cause a file's migrate to abort.
.LI "(-1187)"
\*LE_RMVOL_ALREADY_INPROG\*O
.nL
A remove volume operation on a volume in the specified domain is already active.
There can only be one active remove volume operation per domain.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.\" 
.\"
\*Ladvfs\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
