.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: aliases.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/17 20:20:43 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH aliases 4
.SH NAME
\*Laliases\*O \- Contains alias definitions for the \*Lsendmail\*O program
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/var/adm/sendmail/aliases\*O
.sE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
By default, the \*Laliases\*O file contains the required aliases 
for the \*Lmail\*O
program.  Do not change these defaults because they are needed by the system.
This file describes user ID aliases used by the \*Lsendmail\*O
command.  It is formatted as a series of lines in the form:
.iS
\*Vname\*L:\*V name_1, name_2, name_3,..\*O
.iE
.PP 
The \*Vname\*O is the name that needs an alias, and the \*Vname_n\*O are
the aliases for that name.  Lines beginning with white space are continuation
lines.  Lines beginning with a # (number sign) are comments.
.PP 
You can define an alias only on local names.  Loops cannot occur, since
no message is sent to any person more than once.  For example, if \*Vname_1\*O
defines an alias that is \*Vname_2\*O and \*Vname_2\*O defines an
alias that is \*Vname_1\*O,
\*Lsendmail\*O does not send the same message back and forth.
Local and valid recipients who have a \*L.forward\*O file in their
home directory have messages forwarded to the list of users defined
in that file.
.PP 
This is only the raw data file; the actual information that defines
the aliases is placed into a binary format in the files
\*L/var/adm/sendmail/aliases.dir\*O
and \*L/var/adm/sendmail/aliases.pag\*O using the \*Lnewaliases\*O
command.  For the change to take effect, the \*Lnewaliases\*O
command must be executed each time the \*Laliases\*O file is changed.
.SH "FILES"
.VL
.LI "\*L/var/adm/sendmail/aliases.dir/*\*O"
Binary aliases file.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/sendmail/aliases.pag/*\*O"
Binary aliases file.
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lnewaliases\*O(1), \*Lsendmail\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
