.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: authcap.4,v $ $Revision: 3.4.5.9 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:23:28 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 SecureWare, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved
.\" @(#)authcap.4	1.2 17:35:45 3/28/90
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
.TH authcap 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lauthcap\*O \- Format of security databases (Enhanced Security)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "security" "databases"
.iX "databases" "format of security"
All security-relevant databases are stored in an ASCII format in
the file system. This reference page describes the format of these databases.
.SS "Structure of the Hierarchies"
The complete database resides in two hierarchies:
\*L/tcb/files/auth\*O
and
\*L/etc/auth\*O\&.
The first hierarchy contains the protected password database. Its
subdirectories have single letter names, each of which is
a starting letter for usernames. Each file in the subdirectories
contains a protected password entry for a user; the file names are the
same as the user names. For example, the protected password entry for
\*Lroot\*O is in
\*L/tcb/files/auth/r/root\*O\&.
.PP
The directories in
\*L/etc/auth\*O
contain system-wide information.
The global system settings reside in the
\*L/etc/auth/system\*O
directory, which contains the following database files:
.VL
.LI "\*Ldefault\*O"
Default control database
.LI "\*Lfiles\*O"
File control database
.LI "\*Lttys\*O"
Terminal control database
.LI "\*Ldevassign\*O"
Device assignment database
.LE
.SS "Format of a File"
Each database file has the same format.
Each file consists of one virtual line, optionally split into multiple
physical lines with the \e (backslash)
character present at the end of all lines but the last.
For instance, the line
.oS
smk:u_name=smk:u_id#16:u_pwd=a78/a1.eitfn6:u_lock@:chkent:
.oE
.PP
can be split into:
.oS
smk:u_name=smk:u_id#16:\e
        :u_pwd=a78/a1.eitfn6:\e
        :u_lock@:chkent:
.oE
.PP
All capabilities must be immediately preceded and followed by the : (colon)
separator; multiple line entries require a : (colon) at the end of
each line and at the beginning of each continuation line in the
entry. Continuation lines are indented by a tab character.
Multiple entries are separated by a new line that is not preceded
by a continuation character:
.oS
daa:u_name=daa:u_id#75:u_maxtries#9:u_retired:chkent:
smk:u_name=smk:u_id#76:u_maxtries#5:u_retired:chkent:
.oE
.SS "Format of a Line"
The format of a line is as follows:
.P
\*Vname\*L:\*Vcap1\*L:\*Vcap2\*L:\*O...\*L:\*Vcapn\*L:chkent:\*O
.P
The entry is referenced by the name.
The end of the name part of the entry is terminated by the : (colon)
character.
.P
At the end of each entry is the \*Lchkent\*O field.
This is used as an integrity check on each entry by the programs that
read the databases.
.P
The names of the capabilities depend on the database. Capabilities can
have
numeric, Boolean, or string values.
Numeric capabilities have the format \*Vname\*L#\*Vnum\*O
where \*Vnum\*O is a decimal or (0 preceded) octal number.
Boolean capabilities have the format
\*Vname\*O or \*Vname\*L@\*O
where the first form signals the presence of the capability and the
second form signals the absence of the capability.
String capabilities have the format
\*Vname\*L=\*Vstring\*O
where string is 0 (zero) or more characters.
In a string, the (backslash) and : (colon) characters can be
escaped as \e\e and \e\^:
respectively.
.SS "File Locking"
All databases use a lock file, the existence of which means that
the file is currently being rewritten. Occasionally, the files
remain after a system crash and must be removed manually. The
lock file is formed by appending \*L:t\*O to the database file name.
.SS "Fields/Flags"
All databases are converted into structures by programs. The
data structures consist of two substructures, each of which has
one member for each field in the database entry.  The
\*Vfield\*O structure contains a field value (for example, a number, a
Boolean flag, a directory string, or a mask), while the flag value (one
bit) indicates the presence or absence of the field in that
entry.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/tcb/files/auth/[a-z]/*\*O"
Contains the protected password database.
.LI "\*L/etc/auth/system/*\*O"
Contains the global system settings database.
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Functions: \*Lgetprpwent(3)\*O, \*Lgetdvagent(3)\*O,
\*Lgetprdfent (3)\*O, \*Lgetprtcent(3)\*O, \*Lgetprfient(3)\*O
.\" \*Lgetprlpent(3)\*O
.PP
Files: \*Ldefault(4)\*O, \*Ldevassign(4)\*O, \*Lfiles(4)\*O, \*Lprpwd(4)\*O,
\*Lttys(4)\*O
.iX "authcap databases"
.\" #endif /* SEC_BASE */
.EQ
delim off
.EN
