.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cdfs.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/15 20:13:31 $
.\" 
.TH cdfs 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lcdfs\*O \- The CD-ROM (Compact Disc Read Only Memory) File System
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "cdfs file"
.iX "CDFS - CD-ROM File System"
The ISO 9660 standard describes volume and file structures for information
exchange on CD-ROMs. CDFS supports mounting, as another local file system
type, CD-ROMs that comply to the standard. Once mounted, files and
directories recorded on the CD-ROM become accessible in a read-only manner
through system calls and commands. Support of the standard is limited
to level 2 interchange with the exception of multiple volume semantics,
according to ISO 9660.
Refer to the international standard ISO 9660-1988 for additional information
pertaining to the actual standard.
.PP
The \*LCDFS\*O file system behaves the same as any read-only file system, and
additionally supports the following semantics.
The \*LCDFS\*O can be exported by NFS, and supports
users being able to mount other
file system types (UFS, NFS, CDFS) onto directories recorded on the CDFS
volume. Volumes recorded in ISO 9660-1988 (interchange level 2)
or High Sierra Group (HSG) format are supported. The data of a mounted
volume which is recorded as part of a multiple volume set or consists of
a single volume set is made available.
Both local and remote execution is supported.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Commented out the following clause and next two sentences per QAR 9743.
.\" for non-interleaved
.\" files. Data contained in files recorded in interleave mode and
.\" non-interleave mode is available through \*Lread\*O(2).
.\" If demand page execution
.\" of interleaved files is required, the user can either copy the file
.\" to magnetic storage, or execute the file over NFS.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP
The \*LCDFS\*O file system also supports CD-ROMs recorded using the Rock Ridge
Interchange Protocol, Revision 1.09, August 1991.  Rock Ridge specifies
the use of the extension fields that are defined by ISO-9660:1988, and it
uses those extensions to provide the following information:
.VL 4m
.LI
File owner, file group, file permissions
.LI
Additional file types (symbolic links, device special files, named
pipes)
.LI
\*Lsetuid\*O, \*Lsetgid\*O, and sticky bits
.LI
Hard link counts
.LI
POSIX file names (mixed case names, unstructured names, and longer names than
ISO-9660:1988 allows)
.LI
Deep directory hierarchies (greater than 8 levels)
.LI
File time stamps
.LE
.PP
Refer to the Rock Ridge specification
for additional information about the extensions.
.PP
Because \*LCDFS\*O is a configurable kernel option,
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Changed 'two lines' to 'line' per QAR 9734.
the following line must exist
.\" End Digital-specific information
in the systems configuration file:
.oS
options CDFS
oE
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Commented out the following line per QAR 9734.
.\"   pseudo-device	cdfs
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP
If the system configuration does not contain the above lines,
modify the configuration file and rebuild the kernel.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Changed '8cdfs' to '8' per QAR 9738.
\*Lmount\*O(8), \*Lcddevsuppl\*O(8), \*Lcdsuf\*O(1), \*Lcd_getdevmap\*O(3),
\*Lcd_setdevmap\*O(3), and \*Lcd_suf\*O(3)
.\" End Digital-specific information
.EQ
delim off
.EN
