.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: charmap.4,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/03 19:26:27 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH charmap 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lcharmap\*O \- Defines character symbols as character encodings
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "charmap file"
The character set description (\*Lcharmap\*O) file defines
character symbols as character encodings. This file is the source
file for a coded character set, or codeset.
All supported codesets have the
Portable Character Set (PCS) as a proper subset.  The PCS
consists of the following character symbols (listed by their
standardized symbolic names) and hexadecimal encodings:
.\" .TB "The Portable Character Set"
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lb  lb
l  l .
_
.sp 0.4p
Symbol Name@Hexadecimal Encoding
.sp 0.4p
_
.sp 0.4p
<NUL>@\ex00
<SOH>@\ex01
<STX>@\ex02
<ETX>@\ex03
<EOT>@\ex04
<ENQ>@\ex05
<ACK>@\ex06
<alert>@\ex07
<backspace>@\ex08
<tab>@\ex09
<newline>@\ex0A
<vertical-tab>@\ex0B
<form-feed>@\ex0C
<carriage-return>@\ex0D
<SO>@\ex0E
<SI>@\ex0F
<DLE>@\ex10
<DC1>@\ex11
<DC2>@\ex12
<DC3>@\ex13
<DC4>@\ex14
<NAK>@\ex15
<SYN>@\ex16
<ETB>@\ex17
<CAN>@\ex18
<EM>@\ex19
<SUB>@\ex1A
<ESC>@\ex1B
<IS4>@\ex1C
<IS3>@\ex1D
<IS2>@\ex1E
<IS1>@\ex1F
<space>@\ex20
<exclamation-mark>@\ex21
<quotation-mark>@\ex22
<number-sign>@\ex23
<dollar-sign>@\ex24
<percent>@\ex25
<ampersand>@\ex26
<apostrophe>@\ex27
<left-parenthesis>@\ex28
<right-parenthesis>@\ex29
<asterisk>@\ex2A
<plus-sign>@\ex2B
<comma>@\ex2C
<hyphen>@\ex2D
<period>@\ex2E
<slash>@\ex2F
<zero>@\ex30
<one>@\ex31
<two>@\ex32
<three>@\ex33
<four>@\ex34
<five>@\ex35
<six>@\ex36
<seven>@\ex37
<eight>@\ex38
<nine>@\ex39
<colon>@\ex3A
<semi-colon>@\ex3B
<less-than>@\ex3C
<equal-sign>@\ex3D
<greater-than>@\ex3E@
<question-mark>@\ex3F
<commercial-at>@\ex40
<A>@\ex41
<B>@\ex42
<C>@\ex43
<D>@\ex44
<E>@\ex45
<F>@\ex46
<G>@\ex47
<H>@\ex48
<I>@\ex49
<J>@\ex4A
<K>@\ex4B
<L>@\ex4C
<M>@\ex4D
<N>@\ex4E
<O>@\ex4F
<P>@\ex50
<Q>@\ex51
<R>@\ex52
<S>@\ex53
<T>@\ex54
<U>@\ex55
<V>@\ex56
<W>@\ex57
<X>@\ex58
<Y>@\ex59
<Z>@\ex5A
<left-bracket>@\ex5B
<backslash>@\ex5C
<right-bracket>@\ex5D
<circumflex>@\ex5E
<underscore>@\ex5F
<grave-accent>@\ex60
<a>@\ex61
<b>@\ex62
<c>@\ex63
<d>@\ex64
<e>@\ex65
<f>@\ex66
<g>@\ex67
<h>@\ex68
<i>@\ex69
<j>@\ex6A
<k>@\ex6B
<l>@\ex6C
<m>@\ex6D
<n>@\ex6E
<o>@\ex6F
<p>@\ex70
<q>@\ex71
<r>@\ex72
<s>@\ex73
<t>@\ex74
<u>@\ex75
<v>@\ex76
<w>@\ex77
<x>@\ex78
<y>@\ex79
<z>@\ex7A
<left-brace>@\ex7B
<vertical-line>@\ex7C
<right-brace>@\ex7D
<tilde>@\ex7E
<DEL>@\ex7F
.sp 4p
_
.TE
.PP
The \*Lcharmap\*O
file has the following components:
.ML
.LI
An optional special symbolic name declarations section
.IP
Each declaration in this section consists of a special symbolic name,
followed by one
or more space or tab characters, and a value.
The following list describes the special symbolic names that
you can include in the declarations section:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L<code_set_name>\*O"
Specifies the name of the codeset for
which the \*Lcharmap\*O file is defined.  This value determines the
value returned by the \*Lnl_langinfo\*O (\*LCODESET\*O) subroutine.
If \*L<code_set_name>\*O is not declared, the name for the
Portable Character Set is used.
.LI "\*L<mb_cur_max>\*O"
Specifies the maximum number of bytes in a
character for the codeset.  Valid values are 1 to
4.  The default value is 1.
.LI "\*L<mb_cur_min>\*O"
Specifies the minimum number of bytes in a
character for the codeset.  Since all supported codesets
have the Portable Character Set as a proper
subset, this value must be 1.
.LI "\*L<escape_char>\*O"
Specifies the escape character that indicates
encodings in hexadecimal or octal notation.  The default value
is a \*L\e\*O (backslash).
.LI "\*L<comment_char>\*O"
Specifies the character used to indicate a comment
within a \*Lcharmap\*O file.  The default value is a \*L#\*O (number sign).
.LE
.LI
The \*LCHARMAP\*O section header
.IP
This header marks the beginning of
the section that associates character symbols with encodings.
.LI
Mapping statements for characters in the codeset
.IP
Each statement lists a symbolic name for a
character and its associated encoding.
The format of a mapping statement is:
.IP
.iS
<char_symbol> \*Vencoding\*O
.iE
.IP
A symbolic name
begins with the \*L<\*O (left-angle bracket)
character and ends with the \*L>\*O (right-angle bracket)
character.  The characters for \*Vchar_symbol\*O (between \*L<\*O and \*L>\*O)
can be any characters from the Portable Character Set,
except for control and space characters. The
right-angle bracket (\*L>\*O) can occur in \*Vchar_symbol\*O as well
in the last
position of the name.
You must precede all \*L>\*O characters but the last one
with the escape character (as specified by the \*L<escape_char>\*O
special symbolic name).
.\" No limit on length of symbolic names according to TW.
.\" A symbolic name cannot exceed 32 bytes in length.
.IP
The format of a mapping statement is:
.IP
.iS
<char_symbol> \*Vencoding\*O
.iE
.IP
An encoding is specified as one or more character constants, with
the maximum number of character constants specified by the
\*L<mb_cur_max>\*O special symbolic name.  The
encoding may be listed as decimal, octal, or
hexadecimal constants with the following formats:
.VL 11m
.LI "Hexadecimal constant"
\*L\ex\*Vxx\*O, where \*Vx\*O is a hexadecimal digit
.LI "Octal constant"
\*L\e\*Vooo\*O or \*L\e\*Voo\*O, where \*Vo\*O is an octal digit
.LI "Decimal constant"
\*L\ed\*Vddd\*O or \*L\ed\*Vdd\*O, where \*Vd\*O is a decimal digit
.LE
.IP
Some examples of character symbol definitions are the following:
.IP
.oS
<A>        \ed65        #decimal constant
<B>        \ex42        #hexadecimal constant
<j10101>   \ex81\exA1    #multiple hexadecimal constants
.oE
.IP
A range of symbolic names and corresponding encoded
values may also be defined, where the nonnumeric prefix for each
symbolic name is common, and the numeric portion of the second
symbolic name  is equal to or greater than the
numeric portion of the first symbolic name.  In this format, a
symbolic name value consists of zero or more
nonnumeric characters followed by an integer of one or more
decimal  digits.  This format defines a series of symbolic names.
For example, the string \*L<j0101>...<j0104>\*O is interpreted as the
\*L<j0101>\*O, \*L<j0102>\*O, \*L<j0103>\*O, and \*L<j0104>\*O
symbolic names, in that order.
.IP
In statements defining ranges of symbolic names, the encoded
value listed is the value for the first symbolic name in the range.
Subsequent symbolic names have encoded values in increasing
order.  For example:
.IP
.oS
<j0101>...<j0104>        \ed129\ed254
.oE
.IP
The preceding statement is interpreted as follows:
.IP
.oS
<j0101> \ed129\ed254
<j0102> \ed129\ed255
<j0103> \ed130\ed0
<j0104> \ed130\ed1
.oE
.IP
Although you cannot assign multiple encodings to one symbolic name,
you can create multiple names for one encoded value.  This is allowed
because some characters have several common names.  For example,
the "\*L\&.\*O" character is called a \*Eperiod\*O in some
parts of the world, and a \*Efull stop\*O in others.  Both
names may appear in the \*Lcharmap\*O.  For example:
.IP
.oS
<period>        \ex2e
<full-stop>     \ex2e
.oE
.IP
If used, comments must begin with the
character specified by the \*L<comment_char>\*O special symbolic name.
When an entire line is a comment, you must specify \*L<comment_char>\*O
in the first column of the line.
.LI
The \*LEND CHARMAP\*O trailer
.IP
This entry denotes the end of character map statements.
.LE
.PP
The following example is a portion of a possible
\*Lcharmap\*O file:
.PP
.oS
CHARMAP
<code_set_name>         "ISO8859-1"
<mb_cur_max>            1
<mb_cur_min>            1
<escape_char>           \e
<comment_char>          #

<NUL>                   \ex00
<SOH>                   \ex01
<STX>                   \ex02
<ETX>                   \ex03
<EOT>                   \ex04
<ENQ>                   \ex05
<ACK>                   \ex06
<alert>                 \ex07
<backspace>             \ex09
<tab>                   \ex09
<newline>               \ex0a
<vertical-tab>          \ex0b
<form-feed>             \ex0c
<carriage-return>       \ex0d
END CHARMAP
.oE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 14m
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/nls/loc/charmaps/*\*O"
Character set description (\*Lcharmap\*O) source
files for supported locales.  The
\*L/usr/lib/nls/loc/charmaps\*O directory does not exist when
source files for installed locales are not provided.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Llocale\*O(1), \*Llocaledef\*O(1).
.PP
Files:  \*Llocale\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
