.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Command.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/17 20:08:47 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Made major revisions of the list coding to straighten out the 
.\"   organization of the page.  Also made tman corrections.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.\" 
.TH Command 4
.SH NAME
\*LCommand\*O \- Contains file transfer directions for the \*Luucico\*O daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "Command file"
.iX "uucico" "Command file"
.sS
\*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*VLocalSystemName/\*LC.\*VSystemNamexxxx###\*O
.sE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\*LCommand (C.*)\*O files contain the directions that the
uucp \*Luucico\*O daemon follows
when transferring files.  The full pathname of a command file is
a form of the following:
.iS
/usr/spool/uucp/\*VSystemName/\*LC.\*VSystemNameNxxxx\*O
.iE
.PP
\*L/C.\*VSystemName \*Oindicates the name of the remote system.
\*VN\*O represents the grade of the work, and \*Vxxxx\*O
is the 4-digit hexadecimal transfer-sequence number;
for example, \*LC.merlinCE01F\*O.
.PP
The grade of the work specifies when the file is to be transmitted
during a particular connection.  The grade notation has the following
characteristics:
.ML
.LI
It is a single number (\*L0\*O to \*L9\*O) or letter (\*LA\*O to \*LZ\*O,
\*La\*O to \*Lz\*O).
.LI
Lower sequence characters cause the file to be transmitted earlier
in the connection than do higher sequence characters.
.LI
The number \*L0\*O (zero) is the highest grade, signifying the earliest
transmittal; \*Lz\*O is the lowest grade, signifying the latest transmittal.
.LI
The default grade is \*VN\*O.
.LE
.PP
A command file consists of a single line that includes the following
kinds of information in the following order:
.AL
.LI
An \*LS\*O (send) or \*LR\*O (receive) notation.
Note that a send command file is created by the
\*Luucp\*O or\*L \*Luuto\*O commands; a receive
command file is created by the\*L \*Luux\*O command.
.LI
The full pathname of the source file being transferred.
A receive command file does not include this entry.
.LI
The full pathname of the destination file, or
a pathname preceded by \*L~\*Vuser\*O (tilde \*Vuser\*O), where
\*Vuser\*O is a login name on the specified system.  Here, the
tilde is shorthand for the name of the user's home directory.
.LI
The sender's login name.
.LI
A list of the options, if any, included with the \*Luucp\*O,
\*Luuto\*O, or \*Luux\*O command.
.LI
The name of the data file associated with the command
file in the spooling directory.  This field must contain an entry.
If one of the data-transfer commands (such as the \*Luucp\*O command
with the default \*L-c\*O flag) does not create a data file, the
\*Luucp\*O program instead creates a placeholder with the name\*L D.0\*O
for send files, or \*Ldummy\*O for receive files.
.LI
The source file permissions code, specified as
a 3-digit octal number (for example, \*L777\*O).
.LI
The login name of the user on the remote system
who is to be notified when the transfer is complete.
.LE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
Examples of send command and receive command files follow.
.SS "Examples of Two Send Command Files"
.AL
.LI
The send command file \*L/usr/spool/uucp/venus/C.heraN1133\*O,
created with the \*Luucp\*O command, contains
the following fields:
.oS
S /u/betp/f1 /usr/spool/uucppublic/f2 betp \
.nL
                -dC D.herale3655 777 jmp
.oE
The fields are as follows:
.ML
.LI
The \*LS\*O keyword denotes that the \*Luucp\*O command is sending the file.
.LI
The full pathname of the source file is \*L/u/betp/f1\*O\&.
.LI
The full pathname of the destination is \*L/usr/spool/uucppublic/f2\*O,
where \*L/usr/spool/uucppublic\*O is the name
of the uucp public spooling directory on the remote computer and \*Lf2\*O
is the new name of the file.
.IP
Note that when the user's login ID is \*Luucp\*O,
the destination name may be abbreviated as \*L~ uucp/f2\*O\&.
Here, the \*L~\*O (tilde) is a shorthand way of designating the public
directory.
.LI
The person sending the file is \*Lbetp\*O.
.LI
The sender entered the \*Luucp\*O command with
the \*L-C\*O flag, specifying that the \*Luucp \*Ocommand program
should transfer the file to the local spooling directory and create
a data file for it.  (The \*L-d\*O flag, which specifies that the
command should create any intermediate directories needed to copy
the source file to the destination, is the default.)
.LI
The name of the Data (\*LD.*\*O) file is \*LD.herale3655\*O, which the
\*Luucp\*O command assigns.
.LI
The octal permissions code is \*L777\*O.
.LI
On system \*Lhera\*O, \*Ljmp\*O is the login name of the user
who is to be notified of the file arrival.
.LE
.LI
The \*L/usr/spool/uucp/hera/C.zeusN3130\*O send command file, produced by the
\*Luuto\*O command, is as follows:
.IP
.oS
S /u/betp/out ~/receive/msg/zeus betp \
.nL
                      -dcn D.0 777[4~ msg
.oE
.ML
.LI
The \*LS\*O denotes that the \*L/u/betp/out\*O source file
was sent to the \*Lreceive/msg\*O subdirectory in the public spooling
directory on system \*Lzeus\*O by user \*Lbetp\*O.
.LI
The \*Luuto\*O command used the
default flags \*L-d\*O (create directories), \*L-c\*O (transfer
directly, no spooling directory or data file), and \*L-n \*O(notify
recipient).
.IP
Note that the \*Luuto\*O command creates the \*Lreceive/msg\*O
directory if it does not already exist.
.LI
The \*LD.0\*O notation is a placeholder, \*L777\*O
is the permissions code, and \*Lmsg\*O is the recipient.
.LE
.LE
.SS "Example of a Receive Command File"
The format of a receive command file is somewhat
different from that of a send command file.  When files required to
run a specified command on a remote system are not present on that
system, the \*Luux\*O command creates a receive command file.
.PP
For example, the following command
produces the \*L/usr/spool/uucp/zeus/C.heraR1e94\*O receive command file:
.iS
uux - "diff /u/betp/out hera!/u/betp/out2 > ~uucp/DF"
.iE
.IP
Note that the command in this example invokes the \*Luux\*O command to
run a \*Ldiff\*O command on the local system,
comparing file \*L/u/betp/out\*O with file \*L/u/betp/out2\*O,
which is stored on remote system \*Lhera\*O.  The output
of the comparison is placed in file \*LDF\*O in the public directory
on the local system.
.IP
The actual receive command file looks like this:
.oS
R /u/betp/out2 D.hera1e954fd betp - dummy 0666 betp
.oE
.IP
The \*LR\*O denotes a receive file.  The
\*Luucico\*O daemon, called by the \*Luux\*O command,
gets the \*L/u/betp/out2\*O file from
system \*Lhera\*O, and places it in a data file called \*LD.hera1e954fd\*O
for the transfer.  Once the files are transferred, the
\*Luuxqt\*O daemon executes
the command on the specified system.
User \*Lbetp\*O issued the \*Luux\*O command with the \*L-\*O
(dash) flag, which makes the standard input to the \*Luux\*O
command the standard input to the actual command string.  No data
file was created in the local spooling directory, so the \*Luucp\*O program
uses \*Ldummy\*O as a placeholder.  The permissions code is \*L666\*O
(the \*Luucp\*O program prefixes the 3-digit octal code with a \*L0\*O [zero]),
and user \*Lbetp\*O is to be notified when the command finishes
executing.
.SH "FILES"
.PP
.VL 10m
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Permissions\*O"
Describes access permissions for remote systems
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O"
Describes accessible remote systems
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*VSystemName\*L/*\*O"
Contains uucp command, data, and execute files
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*VSystemName\*L/D.*\*O"
Contain data to be transferred
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucppublic/*\*O"
Contains transferred files
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Daemons: \*Lcron(8)\*O, \*Luucico(8)\*O, \*Luusched(8)\*O, \*Luuxqt\*O
.PP
Commands: \*Luucp(1)\*O, \*Luudemon.cleanup\*O, \*Luupick(1)\*O,
\*Luuto(1)\*O, \*Luux(1)\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
