.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: core.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/17 18:39:03 $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)core.5 6.2 (Berkeley) 3/9/86
.\"
.TH core 4
.SH NAME
\*Lcore\*O \- Format of memory image file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "core file"
\*L#include <sys/param.h>\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" removed RICS/os
The system writes out a memory image of a terminated
.\" End Digital-specific information
process when any of various errors occur.  See \*Lsigvec\*O(2)
for the list of reasons; the most common are memory violations, illegal
instructions, bus errors, and user-generated quit signals.
The memory image is called \*Lcore\*O and is written in the process's
working directory (provided it can be; normal access controls apply).
.PP
The maximum size of a \*Lcore\*O
file is limited. Files that would be larger than the limit are not created.
.PP
The \*Lcore\*O file consists of the \*Vu.\*O
area, whose size (in pages) is defined by the \*LUPAGES\*O
manifest in the \*L< sys/param.h >\*O file.  The
\*Vu.\*O area starts with a \*Vuser\*O structure as given in \*L< sys/user.h >\*O.
The remainder of the \*Lcore\*O file consists first of the data pages and then
the stack pages of the process image.
The amount of data space image in the \*Lcore\*O file is given (in pages) by the
variable \*Vu_dsize\*O in the \*Vu.\*O area.
The amount of stack image in the \*Lcore\*O file is given (in pages) by the
variable \*Vu_ssize\*O in the \*Vu.\*O area.
The size of a \*Lpage\*O is given by the constant
\*LNBPG\*O (also from \*L< sys/param.h >\*O).
.PP
In general the debugger \*Ldbx\*O(1) is sufficient to deal with core images.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lsigvec\*O(2), \*Ldbx\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
