.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Corrupt.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 16:14:27 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
.\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail 
.\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH Corrupt 4
.SH NAME
\*LCorrupt\*O, \*L.Corrupt\*O \- Contains copies of files that could not be processed
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Corrupt/*\*O
.sE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.iX "Corrupt" "uucp corrupt file"
.iX "uucp" "corrupt file"
.\"End Digital correction.
The \*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Corrupt\*O directory contains copies
of files that could not be processed by the \*Luucp\*O program.
For example, if a file is not in the correct form
for transfer, the \*Luucp\*O program places a copy of that file in
the \*L.Corrupt\*O directory for later handling by the system manager.
.PP
This directory is rarely used.
The files in it are removed periodically
by the \*Luudemon.cleanup\*O(8) command,
a shell procedure.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
.\"Begin Digital correction.
Daemons: \*Luucico\*O(8), \*Luuxqt\*O(1)
.PP
Commands: \*Luudemon.cleanu\*O(4)
.\"End Digital correction.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
