.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Data.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/17 20:11:36 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH Data 4
.SH NAME
\*LData\*O \- Contains data to be sent to remote systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*VLocalSystemName/\*LD.\*VSystemNamexxxx###\*L
.sE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.iX "Data file (uucp)"
.PP
\*LData\*O (\*LD.*\*O) files contain the data to be sent to remote
systems by the \*Luucp\*O \*Luucico\*O daemon.
The full pathname of a data file is a form of the following:
.iS
\*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*VSystemName/\*LD.\*VSystemNamexxxx###\*O
.iE
.PP
where the \*VSystemName\*O directory and the \*VSystemName\*O portion
of the file name indicate the name of the remote system.  The
\*Vxxxx###\*O notation is the hexadecimal sequence number of the
\*LCommand\*O (\*LC.*\*O) file associated with that data file;
for example, \*LD.venus471afd8\*O.
.PP
After a set period of time (specified by the \*Luusched\*O daemon),
the \*Luucico\*O daemon transfers
the data file to the designated system.  It places the original data
file in a subdirectory of the \*Luucp\*O spooling directory
named \*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*VSystemName\*O, where
the \*VSystemName\*O directory is named for the computer that is transmitting
the file, and creates a \*LTemporary\*O (\*LTM.*\*O) file to hold the original data file.
.PP
After receiving the entire file, the \*Luucp\*O program takes one of
three actions:
.AL
.LI
If the file was sent with the \*Luucp\*O command and there
were no transfer problems, the program immediately renames the \*LTM.*\*O
file with the appropriate data filename, such as \*LD.venus471afd8\*O,
and sends it to the specified destination.
.LI
If the file was sent with the \*Luuto\*O command, the \*Luucp\*O  program also renames the temporary data file with the appropriate \*LD.*\*O
filename.  It then places the data file in the public
directory \*L/usr/spool/uucppublic\*O,
where the user receives the data file and handles it with one of the
\*Luupick\*O command options.
.LI
If there were transfer problems (such as a failed login or an
unavailable device), the temporary data file remains in the spooling
subdirectory.  The \*Luudemon.cleanup\*O command,
a shell script, removes these files automatically at specified intervals,
or they can be removed manually.
.LE
.SH "FILES"
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O"
Describes accessible remote systems
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*VSystemName/*\*O"
Contains \*Luucp\*O command, data, and execute files
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*VSystemName/\*LC.*\*O"
Contain instructions for file transfers
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*VSystemName/\*LTM.*\*O"
Store data files temporarily after they have been transferred
to a remote system
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucppublic/*\*O"
Contain files that the \*Luucp\*O program has transferred
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Daemons: \*Luucico\*O(8), \*Luusched\*O(8), \*Luuxqt\*O
.PP
Commands: \*Luucp\*O(1), \*Luudemon.cleanup\*O, \*Luupick\*O(1),
\*Luuto\*O(1), \*Luux\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
