.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: default.4,v $ $Revision: 3.4.5.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:23:33 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.\"build rmifdef
.\" @(#)default.4	1.1 09:57:08 6/3/91 SecureWare, Inc.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 SecureWare, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
.TH default 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ldefault\*O \- System default database file (Enhanced Security)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "default file"
.iX file default
.iX database default
The system default database is unique in that it defines system-wide global
parameters. It is designed to provide values for users and devices at a global
level so that an administrator is not required to replicate values in user or
device databases when they are all the same. In addition to being easier to
specify global values, it is also much easier to make a global system change
if necessary.
.PP
The system default database contains four types of values. The first type
is system-wide parameters that do not have corresponding specifications in
any other system database. If a system-wide parameter is not specified in the
default database, then it is undefined. The second type of parameters are user
parameters
typically specified in a protected password database file. The third type is
terminal control parameters typically specified in the terminal control
database file. The last type of parameter is device assignment parameters
typically specified in the device assignment database file.
.PP
The field names for each value type begin with an identifying prefix.
The following list of prefixes also lists the reference page that
explains the associated database:
.TP
\*Ld_\*O
Defaults database field. This reference page.
.TP
\*Lt_\*O
Terminal control database field. See the \*Lttys(4)\*O reference page.
.TP
\*Lu_\*O
Protected password database field. See the \*Lprpwd(4)\*O reference page.
.TP
\*Lv_\*O
Device assignment database field. See the \*Ldevassign(4)\*O reference page.
.PP
System default parameters can be specified for fields found in the protected
password, terminal control, and device assignment databases. When a specific
entry is retrieved from one of these databases, a structure called \*Lufld\*O
that contains all
of the explicitly specified values is provided to the caller. A second
structure, called \*Lsfld\*O,
is also provided; it defines those values supplied from the system default
database. Each of these structures has a corresponding flag structure called
\*Luflg\*O and \*Lsflg\*O respectively that indicates which fields in each
structure have been specified and are valid for use.
Programs honor the user-specific or device-specific
value if one is provided.
Otherwise, programs use the system default value if one has
been specified. If neither value is specified, the program may supply a
reasonable default value or abort.
.PP
The following fields are defined only in the
defaults database:
.PP
.VL 20
.LI "\*Ld_pw_expire_warning\*O"
This field contains the value used to control whether a password expiration
warning is given at login time. The field contains a value measured in seconds.
If the password expiration time contained in the user's protected password
database file falls within this time interval measured from the current system
time, the warning will be given. In other words, if the password will expire
within the specified interval, the system warns the user to change the password.
.LI "\*Ld_name\*O"
This name is set to the string \*Ldefault\*O.
.LI "\*Ld_boot_authenticate\*O"
This flag field indicates whether boot authentication is required to
boot the machine. If authentication is required, it is performed by the system
\*Linit\*O program prior to completing system boot.
.\" .LI "\*Ld_audit_enable\*O"
.\" This flag field controls whether or not auditing is enabled at system
.\" startup.
.LI "\*Ld_secclass\*O"
This field is an ASCII identifier of the security class supported by the
system and is used for informational purposes only. The choices include
\*La1\*O, \*Lb1\*O, \*Lb2\*O, \*Lb3\*O, \*Lc1\*O, \*Lc2\*O, and \*Ld\*O.
.LE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
The following example is a typical system default database:
.PP
.oS
default:\e
        :d_name=default:\e
        :d_secclass=c2:\e
        :d_boot_authenticate@:\e
        :d_audit_enable@:\e
        :d_pw_expire_warning#3456000:\e
        :u_pwd=*:\e
.\"         :u_cmdpriv=boot,ping,printerstat,tape:\e
.\"         :u_syspriv=execsuid,chmodsugid:\e
.\"         :u_basepriv=execsuid,chmodsugid:\e
        :u_minchg#0:u_maxlen#10:u_exp#15724800:u_life#31449600:\e
        :u_pickpw:u_genpwd:u_restrict@:u_nullpw@:\e
        :u_genchars:u_genletters:\e
        :u_maxtries#5:u_lock:\e
        :t_logdelay#2:t_maxtries#10:\e
        :chkent:
.oE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/auth/system/default\*O"
Specifies the pathname of the file.
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Functions: \*Lgetprdfent(3)\*O
.PP
Files: \*Lauthcap(4)\*O, \*Ldevassign(4)\*O, \*Lprpwd(4)\*O, \*Lttys(4)\*O
.\" #endif /* SEC_BASE */
.EQ
delim off
.EN
