.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: devassign.4,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:23:38 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\" @(#)devassign.4	1.1 09:57:17 6/3/91 SecureWare, Inc.
.\"
.\"build rmifdef
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 SecureWare, Inc.
.\"   All rights reserved
.\"
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
.TH devassign 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ldevassign\*O \- Device assignment database file (Enhanced Security)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "devassign file"
.iX "device assignment database"
.iX "database" "device assignment"
.iX file devassign
The system supports a single device assignment database that contains entries
for login terminals, printers, and devices that can
be used for import and/or export.
.PP
The format of the terminal control database file is identical to other system
authentication database files and is described in the
\*Lauthcap(4)\*O reference page.
The following keyword identifiers are supported:
.VL
.LI "\*Lv_devs\*O"
This field specifies a comma-separated list of aliases that refer to the same
device defined by the entry. Use of this field avoids the need to replicate
device assignment database entries for all device aliases.
.LI "\*Lv_type\*O"
This field specifies the device that is described by the entry.
Device types supported include:
.VL 10
.LI "\*Lprinter\*O"
The device is assigned as a printer, which may be subject to output labeling.
.LI "\*Lterminal\*O"
The device is assigned as a local login terminal device.
.LI "\*Ltape\*O"
The device is assigned as a tape device, which may be used for the
import and export of data.
.LE
.LI "\*Lv_users\*O"
This field, if specified, contains a comma-separated list of usernames that
are permitted to use the device for login or the import\^/\^export of data.
If the list is not present, all
users are permitted to use the device. If the list is present, it is searched
for a match by the \*Llogin\*O
.\" NON_SILVER
.\"  and \*Lmltape\*O programs
program to determine if the user is permitted to
use the device.
.LE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
The following example shows a device assignment database entry for
a terminal device with a list of allowed users:
.oS
tty0:v_devs=/dev/tty0:\e
	:v_type=terminal:v_users=may,tdy,ssv,rgb:\e
	:chkent:
.oE
.P
The following example shows a device assignment database entry for a
tape device assigned as a device for import and export of
labeled or nonlabeled data:
.P
.oS
mt0:v_devs=/dev/rmt0,/dev/mt0:\e
        :v_type=tape:\e
        :v_assign=import,export,label,nolabel:\e
        :chkent:
.oE
.P
The tape device, \*L/dev/rmt0\*O, has an alias by which the device is also
known, \*L/dev/mt0\*O. These names refer to the same physical device.
The device is assigned as a tape device indicating it can be used for import
and export of labeled data.
.P
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L\*L/etc/auth/system/devassign\*O"
Specifies the pathname of the file.
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands:
\*Lcpio(1)\*O,
\*Llogin(1)\*O,
.\" NON_SILVER
.\" \*Lmltape(1)\*O,
\*Ltar(1)\*O
.PP
Functions: \*Lgetdvagent(3)\*O
.PP
Files: \*Lauthcap(4)\*O, \*Ldefault(4)\*O
.\" #endif /* SEC_BASE */
.EQ
delim off
.EN
