.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Devices.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/21 15:54:48 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
.\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail 
.\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH Devices 4
.SH "NAME"
\*LDevices\*O \- Contains information about devices on the local system that can establish a connection to a remote computer using the \*Luucp\*O program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.iX "Devices file"
.sS
\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices
.sE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\*OThe \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O file contains information about
the devices on the local system that can establish a connection to
a remote computer using the \*Luucp\*O program.
This file includes information about hardwired, telephone, and  TCP/IP
communications links.
.PP
Note that only someone with root user authority can edit
the \*LDevices\*O file, which is owned by the \*Luucp\*O login ID.
.SS "Fields in the Devices File"
The \*LDevices\*O file must contain a description of each device
on the local system that can establish a remote connection using the
\*Luucp\*O program.   Each line in the \*LDevices\*O file includes the
following fields:
.VL
.LI "\*VType\*O"
Typically specifies
the type of hardwired (DIR) or Automatic Calling Unit (ACU) device.
.LI "\*VLine\*O"
Specifies the device
name for the port.
.LI "\*VLine2\*O"
Specifies the
dialer name if the \*VLine\*O entry specifies an 801 dialer.
.LI "\*VClass\*O"
Typically specifies
the transmission speed.
.LI "\*VDialer-Token Pairs\*O"
Specifies a particular type of autodialer (modem) and the token
(a defined string
of characters) that is passed to the dialer.  Valid entries for this
field are defined in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/\*LDialers\*O file.
.LE
.PP
The fields appear on the line as follows:
.oS
\*VType   Line   Line2   Class   Dialer-Token Pairs\*O
.oE
.PP
There must be an entry in every field of a line in the \*LDevices\*O
file.  If a field does not apply to the particular type of device,
use a \*L-\*O (dash) as a placeholder.
.PP
Lines in the \*LDevices\*O file cannot wrap.  Each entry must
be on only one line in the file.  However, the \*LDevices\*O file
can contain blank lines and comment lines.  Comment lines begin with
a \*L#\*O (number sign).  Blank lines are ignored.
.VL
.LI "\*VType\*O Field"
Enter one of the following keywords in the \*VType\*O field:
.VL
.LI "\*LACU\*O"
Use this keyword, entered in uppercase letters, if
your site connects multiple systems over the telephone network using
automatic calling units (autodialers or modems).
.LI "\*LDIR\*O"
Use this keyword
if your site uses hardwired lines to connect multiple systems.
.LI "\*LTCP\*O"
Use this keyword if your site
uses TCP/IP.
.LI "\*VSystemName\*O"
Enter the name of a particular remote system
hardwired to the local system. The \*VSystemName\*O keyword is
the name assigned to each individual system; for example,
\*Lhera\*O, \*Lzeus\*O, or \*Lmerlin\*O.
.LE
.IP
\*OThis field corresponds to the \*VType\*O field in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O
file.
.LI "\*VLine\*O Field"
Enter the device name for the line, or port, used in the communications
link.  For example, use the appropriate tty device name for a hardwired
line, such as \*Ltty01\*O.  For a line connected to an ACU (a
modem), use a device name appropriate to the dialer, such as \*Ltty01\*O
or \*Ltty0\*O.  For a \*LTCP\*O connection, enter a \*L-\*O (dash)
as a placeholder.
.LI "\*VLine2\*O Field"
If you are using an 801 dialer, enter the device name of the 801
ACU in this field.  For example, if the entry in the \*VType \*Ofield
is \*LACU\*O and the \*VLine \*Ofield entry (specifying the
modem) is \*Ltty0\*O, the \*VLine2\*O field entry
(specifying the 801 dialer for the modem) might be \*Ltty01\*O.
If the device type is not 801, enter a \*L-\*O (dash) in this
field as a placeholder.
.IP
Note that the \*VLine2\*O field is used only to support
older modems that require 801-type dialers.  The modem is plugged
into one serial port, and the 801 dialer is plugged into a separate
serial port.
.LI "\*VClass\*O Field"
For an ACU or a hardwired line, the \*VClass\*O field can be
the speed of the device.  In this case, for a hardwired line, enter
the transmission rate of the device connecting the two systems.  For
a telephone connection, enter the speed at which the ACU transmits
data, such as \*L300\*O or \*L1200\*O bps.
.IP
This field can also contain a letter with a speed (for example, \*LC1200\*O,
\*LD1200\*O) to differentiate between classes of dialers.
For example, some offices have more than one telephone network, one
for internal use and one for external communications.  In such a case,
it is necessary to distinguish which lines should be used for each
connection.
.IP
For devices that can match any speed, you can specify \*LAny\*O in
this field.
.IP
The \*VClass\*O field in the \*LDevices\*O file is matched
against the \*VClass\*O field in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O
file.  For example, if the \*LSystems\*O file entry for system \*Lhera\*O
is:
.oS
hera Any ACU 1200 3-3-5-2 ogin: nuucp ssword: oldoaktree
.oE
.IP
The \*Luucp\*O program searches for an entry in the \*LDevices\*O
file with a \*VType\*O of ACU and a \*VClass\*O of \*L1200\*O.
.IP
Some devices can be used at several speeds.  In this case, make
multiple entries for the device, specifying each speed on a separate
line in the \*LDevices\*O file.  If the \*Luucp\*O program cannot connect at the first
speed, it will try the other speeds, one after another.
.IP
For a TCP connection, enter a \*L-\*O (dash) as a placeholder.
.LI "\*VDialer-Token Pairs Field"
The \*VDialer-Token Pairs\*O field specifies a particular type of
autodialer (modem) and the token (a defined string of characters)
that is passed to the dialer.  Valid entries for this field are defined
in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Dialers\*O file.
.IP
For a hardwired connection, enter the word \*Ldirect\*O (note
the lowercase d) as the \*VDialer\*O entry and leave
the \*VToken\*O entry blank.
.IP
For a telephone connection, enter the type of dialer and the token
that is passed on to that modem.  The \*VToken\*O field entry is
either a telephone number or a predefined string used to reach the
dialer.
.IP
For a telephone connection, enter one of the following as the \*VDialer\*O
field entry:
.VL
.LI "\*Lhayes\*O"
A Hayes dialer.
.LI "\*Lpenril\*O"
A Penril dialer.
.LI "\*Vdialer\*O"
Other dialers that you can specify by including
the relevant information in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Dialers\*O
file.
.LI "\*LTCP\*O"
A TCP/IP connection.  Enter \*LTCP\*O in the \*VDialer\*O
field entry if you have also entered \*LTCP\*O in the \*VType\*O
field.
.LE
.IP
Each \*VDialer\*O field entry included as part of a \*VDialer-Token
Pairs\*O field in the \*LDevices\*O file has a corresponding entry
in the \*LDialers\*O file.
.IP
If the \*VToken\*O field entry represents a telephone number,
enter one of the following in the \*VToken\*O field to specify
how the \*Luucp\*O program should use the telephone number listed in the
\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O file:
.VL
.LI "\*L\eD\*O"
The default token in a \*VDialer-Token Pairs\*O
field. The \*L\eD\*O token specifies that the uucp program should take the
phone number listed in the\*L /usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O
file and pass it to the appropriate \*Vdialer script\*O (entry)
in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Dialers\*O file \*Vwithout\*O
including a dial-code abbreviation.
.LI "\*L\eT\*O"
This token instructs the \*Luucp\*O program to process the
phone number by including the data specified in
the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Dialcodes\*O file.
.IP
Note that if you are using dial-code abbreviations specified
in the\*L Dialcodes\*O file for certain telephone numbers, you \*Vmust\*O
enter the \*L\eT\*O string as the token in those entries in the \*LDialers\*O
file.
.LI "\*Lblank\*O"
Leaving the \*VToken\*O field blank is the same as entering \*L\eD\*O, so a
blank is usually sufficient as a token if you have included complete telephone
numbers in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O file.
.LE
.IP
If the \*VToken\*O field does not represent a telephone number,
enter the predefined string necessary to reach the dialer.
.LE
.SS "Entries for Hardwired Connections"
In general, each entry for a hardwired connection consists of
two lines.  The first line specifies the port (line) that the \*Luucp\*O
command uses to connect to the remote system.  The second line specifies
the remote system.  However, if the two systems use a permanent virtual
circuit connection, the entry is a single line in the \*LDevices\*O file.
.PP
To set up a hardwired connection
specifying a port and a remote system, make a 2-line entry as follows:
.AL
.LI
Enter the keyword \*LDirect\*O, with an uppercase \*LD\*O,
in the \*VType\*O field in the first line of the entry.
.LI
Enter the name of the remote system to which you
want to connect the local computer over the hardwired line in the \*VType\*O
field in the second line of the entry.
.LI
Enter the device name appropriate for the hardwired
connection used at your site in the \*VLine\*O field in both lines
of the entry.
.LI
Enter a \*L-\*O (dash) for a placeholder
in the \*VLine2\*O field in both lines of the entry.
.LI
Enter the transmission rate appropriate for the
hardwired connection used at your site in the \*VClass\*O field
in both lines of the entry.
.LI
Enter \*Ldirect\*O (all lowercase) in the \*VDialer-Token Pairs\*O
field in both lines of the entry.
.LE
.PP
To set up a hardwired connection between two systems that use
a permanent virtual circuit connection, make a 1-line entry as follows:
.AL
.LI
Enter the name of the remote system in the\*V Type\*O field.
.LI
Enter the name of the  permanent virtual circuit
connection in the \*VLine\*O field.
.LI
Enter a \*L-\*O (dash) for a placeholder
in the \*VLine2\*O field.
.LI
Enter the transmission rate appropriate for the
hardwired connection used at your site in the \*VClass\*O field.
.LI
Enter \*Ldirect\*O (all lowercase) in the \*VDialer-Token Pairs\*O field.
.LE
.PP
Continue adding entries to the\*L Devices\*O file until you
have listed each hardwired device connecting the local system to a
remote system.
.SS "Entries for Autodialer Connections"
In telephone-connection entries, the \*VType\*O  field is specified
as an ACU.  Enter \*LACU\*O as the \*VType\*O field entry in
all remote connections established over a phone line.
To set up \*LDevices\*O file entries
for autodialer connections, make a 1-line entry for
each modem as follows:
.AL
.LI
Enter \*LACU\*O in the \*VType\*O field.
.LI
The \*VLine\*O field contains the name of the
device that is attached to the modem.  Enter the device name appropriate
for your site.
.LI
Enter a \*L-\*O (dash) as a placeholder in
the \*VLine2\*O field, unless the autodialer is a standard 801
dialer.  If the autodialer is a standard 801 dialer, enter \*L801\*O.
.LI
In the \*VClass\*O field, enter the baud rate
appropriate for your modem and line (this can be \*L300\*O, \*L1200\*O,
\*L2400\*O, or higher, depending on the modem) or the class of your modem (for
example, \*LD2400\).
.LI
Note that if the modem can be used at more than one rate,
make a separate entry in the \*LDevices\*O file for each rate.
.LI
Enter the name of the modem as the \*VDialer\*O
field entry in the \*VDialer-Token Pairs\*O field.
If you are planning to include complete phone numbers
in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/\*LSystems\*O
file, leave the \*VToken\*O field blank.
(A blank instructs the \*Luucp\*O program
to use the default \*L\eD\*O token.)  If you are planning to use
dial-code abbreviations specified in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/\*LDialcodes\*O
file, enter the \*L\eT\*O token.
.LE
.PP
Continue adding entries to the\*L Devices\*O file until you
have listed each connection between the local system and a remote
system that uses a telephone line and a modem.
.SS "Entries for Use with TCP/IP"
If your site is using the TCP/IP system, include the relevant
TCP/IP entry in the\*L Devices\*O file.
To set up the file for use with the TCP/IP system,
enter a line in the \*LDevices\*O file as follows:
.AL
.LI
Enter \*LTCP\*O in the \*VType\*O field.
.LI
Enter dashes in the \*VLine\*O, \*VLine2\*O, and \*VClass\*O fields.
.LI
Enter \*LTCP\*O as the \*VDialer\*O field
entry and leave the \*VToken\*O field blank.
.LE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
Examples of \*LDevices\*O file entries for a number of situations are given
below.
.SS "Setting Up Entries for Hardwired Connections"
.AL
.LI
To set up a \*LDevices\*O file entry specifying a port and a
remote system, enter:
.iS
Direct  tty0  -  1200  direct

zeus  tty0  -  1200  direct
.iE
The \*VType\*O field lists \*LDirect\*O (for a direct connection)
in the first part and \*Lzeus\*O (the name of the remote system)
in the second part.  The local system is connected to system \*Lzeus\*O
by way of device \*Ltty0\*O, which is listed in the \*VLine\*O
field in both parts of the example.
.IP
The \*VLine2\*O field contains actual data only when the entry
specifies a certain type of telephone connection.  A \*L-\*O (dash) is used
as a placeholder in other types of connections, as is the
case in this example.  This tty device transmits at \*L1200\*O bps, which
is listed in the \*VClass\*O field in both parts of the example.
The word \*Ldirect\*O in the \*VDialer\*O portion of the \*VDialer-Token
Pairs\*O field indicates that this is a direct connection.
.LI
To set up a \*LDevices\*O file entry specifying a permanent
virtual circuit connection, enter:
.iS
odin  tty01  -  9600  direct
.iE
The \*VType\*O field lists the name of the remote system, \*Lodin\*O\&.
The \*VLine\*O field contains the name of the permanent
virtual circuit connection.  A \*L-\*O (dash) is used as a placeholder
in the \*VLine2\*O field.  This line transmits at \*L9600\*O bps, which
is listed in the \*VClass\*O field.  The word \*Ldirect\*O in
the \*VDialer\*O portion of the \*VDialer-Token Pairs\*O field
indicates that this is a direct connection.
.LE
.SS "Setting Up Entries for Autodialer Connections"
.AL
.LI
For a standard Hayes modem that can be used at only
one baud rate, enter:
.iS
ACU  tty2  -  1200  hayes
.iE
The \*VType\*O field is specified as \*LACU\*O.  The \*VLine\*O
field is specified with the device name \*Ltty2\*O. Because
this modem is not an 801 dialer, a \*L-\*O (dash) is used as
a placeholder in the\*V Line2\*O field.
The \*VClass\*O field entry is a transmission rate of \*L1200\*O baud.
The \*VDialer\*O part of the \*VDialer-Token Pairs\*O field is specified as a
\*Lhayes\*O modem, and the\*V Token\*O part is left blank.
.LI
To specify a standard Hayes modem that can be used at different baud
rates, enter:
.iS
ACU tty3  -  1200  hayes

ACU tty3   -  300  hayes
.iE
These two lines specify the same modem, a \*Lhayes\*O modem that
can be used at either \*L1200\*O or \*L300\*O baud, as specified
in the \*VClass\*O field.
The modem is connected to a device named \*Ltty3\*O
(the \*VLine\*O field), and the \*VLine2\*O field
contains the \*L-\*O (dash) placeholder.  The \*VDialer\*O
part of the \*VDialer-Token Pairs\*O field is specified as a \*Lhayes\*O
modem, and the\*V Token\*O field is left blank.
.LI
To specify a connection using a standard 801 dialer, enter:
.iS
ACU  tty4  tty5  1200  801

ACU  tty6  tty7  300  801
.iE
In these entries, the \*LACU\*O entries are connected to devices
named \*Ltty4\*O and \*Ltty6\*O, specified in the \*VLine\*O
field. In both cases, there is an entry in the \*VLine2\*O field
because a standard 801 autodialer is specified in the \*VDialer-Token
Pairs\*O field.  Because \*L801\*O is specified as the dialer
in these two examples, the \*VLine2\*O field must contain the device
names of the 801 ACUs.  The \*VClass\*O field entry is a transmission
rate of \*L1200\*O baud for the first example and \*L300\*O
for the second.  The \*VToken\*O part of the \*VDialer-Token
Pairs\*O field is blank.
.LE
.SS "Setting Up Entries for Use with TCP/IP"
If your site is using the TCP/IP system, enter
the following in the \*LDevices\*O file:
.iS
TCP  -  -  -  TCP
.iE
.PP
\*LTCP\*O is specified in the \*VType\*O field.  Dashes are
used as placeholders in the \*VLine\*O, \*VLine2\*O, and \*VClass\*O
fields.  \*LTCP\*O is specified as the \*VDialer\*O field entry
with the \*VToken\*O entry left blank.
.SS "Setting Up Entries for Both Local and Remote Systems"
The following examples illustrate the entries needed in the \*LDevices\*O
file for both local and remote systems in order for the two systems
to communicate using the \*Luucp\*O program.
.PP
The following entries configure local and remote \*LDevices\*O
files for a \*Lhardwired connection\*O between systems \*Lzeus\*O
and \*Lhera\*O, where \*Lzeus\*O is considered the local
system and \*Lhera\*O is considered the remote system.  The hardwired
device is \*Ltty0\*O.
.AL
.LI
The \*LDevices\*O file on system \*Lzeus\*O must contain
the following entry in order to connect to the remote system
\*Lhera\*O:
.iS
Direct  tty0  -  1200  direct

hera  tty0  -  1200  direct
.iE
.LI
The \*LDevices\*O file on system\*L hera\*O must contain
the following entry for communications with system \*Lzeus\*O:
.iS
Direct  tty0  -  1200  direct

zeus  tty0  -  1200  direct
.iE
.LE
The following entries are set up to connect systems\*L venus \*Oand
\*Lmerlin\*O over a \*Ltelephone line using modems\*O.  System \*Lvenus\*O
is considered the local system, and system \*Lmerlin\*O is considered
the remote system.
.PP
On both systems, the \*Ltty01\*O device is hooked to
a \*Lhayes\*O modem at \*L1200\*O baud.  Both computers include
partial phone numbers in their \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O
files and dialing codes in their \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Dialcodes\*O files.
.AL
.LI
The \*LDevices\*O file on system \*Lvenus\*O must contain
the following entry for the connection to system \*Lmerlin\*O:
.iS
ACU  tty01  -  1200  hayes  \eT
.iE
.LI
The \*LDevices\*O file on system \*Lmerlin\*O must contain
the following entry for the connection to system \*Lvenus\*O:
.iS
ACU  tty01  -  1200  hayes  \eT
.iE
.LE
.SH "FILES"
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/*\*O"
Contains all the configuration files for the \*Luucp\*O program, including
the \*LDevices\*O file
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Dialcodes\*O"
Contains dial-code abbreviations
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Dialers\*O"
Specifies initial handshaking on a connection
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O"
Describes accessible remote systems
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Daemons: \*Luucico\*O(8)
.\", \*Luuxqt\*O(8)
.PP
Commands: \*Lcu\*O(1), \*Luucp\*O(1), \*Luuto\*O(1), \*Luux\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
