.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Dialers.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/17 20:17:55 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH Dialers 4
.SH NAME
\*LDialers\*O \- Lists modems used for uucp remote communications links
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Dialers
.sE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
The \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Dialers\*O file lists the modems used
by the \*Luucp\*O program and specifies the
initial handshaking necessary to establish remote communications links.
Handshaking is a series of \*Vexpect-send\*O sequences that specify the
initial communications that occur on a link before it is ready to
send or receive data.  Using the handshaking, the local and remote
systems confirm that they are compatible and configured to transfer
data.
.PP 
The \*LDialers\*O file contains an
entry for each autodialer that is included in
the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/\(LIDevices\(LI\*O file.  It also
contains entries specifying no handshaking for direct hardware links
(the direct entry) and TCP/IP links (the TCP entry).
The first field of the \*LDialers\*O file, which specifies the dialer, is
matched to the fifth field of the \*LDevices\*O file, the \*VDialer-Token
Pairs\*O field, to determine handshaking when making a connection.
.PP 
Note that only someone with superuser authority can edit
the \*LDialers\*O file, which is owned by the \*Luucp\*O program
login ID.
.SS "Fields in the Dialers File"
.PP 
Every modem is listed on a line by itself in the \*LDialers\*O
file.  Each line consists of three groups of information:  the
\*VDialer Name\*O field, the
\*VDial Tone and Wait Characters\*O
field, and the \*VHandshaking\*O field.
.VL
.LI "\*VDialer Name\*O Field"
The first field in the \*LDialers\*O file, the \*VDialer
Name\*O field, specifies the type of autodialer (modem) used in the
connection.  It matches the fifth field in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O
file, the \*VDialer-Token Pairs\*O field.
When a particular device is used to make a connection,
\*Luucp\*O uses the \*VDialer-Token Pairs\*O field in
the \*LDevices\*O file to find the handshaking entry in the
\*LDialers\*O file. If your system has direct hardware connections to
one or more remote systems, include an entry with a \*VDialer Name\*O
of \*Ldirect\*O.  Similarly, if your system uses TCP/IP to connect to
one or more other systems, include an entry with a \*VDialer Name\*O
of \*LTCP\*O.  These entries correspond to the word \*Ldirect\*O or
the word \*LTCP\*O in the \*VDialer-Token Pairs\*O field of entries in
the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O file.  Omit the \*VDial Tone and
Wait Characters\*O field and the \*VHandshaking\*O field, since no
handshaking is needed on these connections.
.LI "\*VDial Tone and Wait Characters\*O" Field
The second field, the \*VDial Tone and Wait Characters\*O field,
consists of two sets of two characters, for a total of four entries.
These characters comprise a translation string.  In the actual telephone
number of the remote modem, the first character in each string is
mapped to the second character in that set.
.VL
.LI "\f(HBEntry\fP"
\fHBAction\fP
.LI "\*L=,-,\*O"
Translates the telephone number.  Any \*L=\*O (equal sign)
represents \*Vwait for dial tone\*O and any \*L-\*O (dash)
represents \*Vpause\*O.
.LI \*L""""\*O
Waits for nothing; continues with the rest of the
string. This field generally translates the \*L=\*O and \*L-\*O
characters into whatever
the dialer uses for \*Vwait for dial tone\*O and \*Vpause\*O.
For \*Ldirect\*O and \*LTCP\*O entries, omit this field.
.LE
.LI "\*VHandshaking\*O Field"
The handshaking, or dialer negotiations, is an \*Vexpect-send\*O sequence
of ASCII strings.  It is given in the \*V Handshaking\*O field,
which comprises the remainder of the entry.  This string is generally
used to pass telephone numbers to a modem, or to make a connection
to another system on the same data switch as the local system.  The
string tells the \*Lcu\*O or \*Lct\*O programs or
the \*Luucico\*O daemon the sequence of characters
to use to dial out on a particular type of modem.  If
the connection succeeds, the line in the\*L Dialers\*O file is
interpreted to perform the dialer negotiations.
.IP 
The handshaking characters include entries such as \*L\ed\*O to
specify a delay, \*L\ep\*O for a pause, \*L\er\*O for a carriage
return, and \*L\ec\*O for a newline.  To determine the appropriate
entries in the handshaking string, refer to the documentation that
accompanied the modems that you are including in the \*LDialers\*O
file, and to the list of expect-send sequences
given in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O file format.
For \*Ldirect\*O and \*LTCP\*O entries, omit this field.
.LE 
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
Several types of \*LDialers\*O file entries are shown below.
.SS "Setting Up Entries in the Dialers File"
.AL
.LI
The following example lists several entries in a typical \*LDialers\*O
file:
.oS
hayes =,-, "" \edAT\er\ec OK \epATDT\eT\er\ec CONNECT
penril =W-P "" \ed > s\ep9\ec )-W\ep\er\eds\ep9\ec-) y\eE\eTP > 9\ec OK
ventel =&-%\& "" \er\ep \er\ep-\er\ep-$ <K\eD%\&%\&\er>\ec ONLINE!
vadiac =K-K "" \e005\ep *-\e005\ep-* D\ep BER? \eE\eD\ee \er\ec LINE
direct
TCP
.oE
Note that in the \*LDialers\*O file, each entry must
be entirely on one line.
.IP
Note that the next to last entry in this example consists
only of the word \*Ldirect\*O.  This entry indicates that hardwired
connections do not require any handshaking.  Similarly, the last entry, 
\*LTCP\*O, indicates that TCP/IP connections require no handshaking.
.LI
The following example interprets the first line
in the preceding \*LDialers\*O file.  This is a standard entry
that may be included in your \*LDialers\*O file with modifications
for use at your site.
.oS
hayes =,-, "" \edAT\er\ec OK \epATDT\eT\er\ec CONNECT
.oE
.PP
The two sequences \*L=,-,\*O and \*L""\*O comprise the \*VDial
Tone and Wait Characters\*O field.  The remaining strings comprise
the \*VHandshaking \*Ofield.  Following is an explanation of how
each entry affects the action of the dialer.
.VL
.LI "\*L=,-,\*O"
Translates the telephone number.  Any \*L=\*O
(equal sign) represents \*Vwait for dial tone\*O and any \*L-\*O
(dash) represents \*Vpause\*O.
.LI \*L""""\*O
Waits for nothing; continues with the rest of the string.
.LI "\*L\edAT\*O"
Delays, then sends \*LAT\*O (the Hayes Attention prefix).
.LI "\*L\er\ec\*O"
Sends a carriage return (\*Lr\*O) followed by
a newline (\*Lc\*O).
.LI "\*LOK\*O"
Waits for \*LOK\*O from the remote modem, signaling
that the first part of the string was executed.
.LI "\*L\epATDT\*O"
Pauses (\*Lp\*O), then sends \*LATDT\*O.  \*LAT\*O
is again the Hayes Attention prefix, \*LD\*O represents a
dialing signal, and \*LT\*O represents a dial tone.
.LI "\*L\eT\*O"
Sends the telephone number, which is specified in
the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O file, with dial-code
translation from the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Dialcodes\*O file.
.LI "\*L\er\ec\*O"
Sends a carriage return and a newline following the number.
.LI "\*LCONNECT\*O"
Waits for \*LCONNECT\*O from the remote modem,
signaling that the modems are connected at the baud rate specified
in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O
file.
.LE 
.IP 
Note that if you need to modify this example for use at
your site and are unsure about the appropriate entries in the handshaking
string, refer to the documentation that accompanied the modems that
you are including in the \*LDialers\*O file.
.LE
.SS "Setting Up the Direct Entry"
.PP 
If your uucp configuration includes hardwired connections,
the \*LDialers\*O file must contain the \*Ldirect\*O entry. Enter:
.iS
direct
.iE
.PP 
This entry indicates that hardwired connections do not require
any handshaking.  It corresponds to the word \*Ldirect\*O
in the \*VDialer-Token Pairs\*O field of the entries for
hardwired devices in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O file.
.SS "Setting Up the TCP/IP Entry"
.PP 
If your uucp configuration includes TCP/IP connections,
the \*LDialers\*O file must contain the \*LTCP\*O entry. Enter:
.iS
TCP
.iE
.PP 
This entry indicates that TCP/IP connections do not require any
handshaking.  It corresponds to the word \*LTCP\*O
in the \*VDialer-Token Pairs\*O field of the entries for TCP/IP
connections in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O file.
.SS "Setting Up Entries for Both Local and Remote Systems"
.PP 
The following examples illustrate the entries needed
in the \*LDialers\*O file to correspond to entries in
the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O file for both
local and remote systems so that the two systems can communicate using
the \*Luucp\*O program.
.PP 
These files are set up to connect systems \*Lvenus\*O and \*Lmerlin\*O
over a telephone line using modems.  System \*Lvenus\*O is
considered the local system, and system \*Lmerlin\*O is considered
the remote system.  On both systems, the \*Ltty1\*O device
is hooked to a \*Lhayes\*O modem at \*L1200\*O baud.
.AL
.LI
The \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O
file on system \*Lvenus\*O must contain the
following entry for the connection to remote system \*Lmerlin\*O:
.iS
ACU tty1 - 1200 hayes
.iE
.LI
The \*LDialers\*O file on system \*Lvenus\*O must contain
the following entry for its modem:\*L
.iS
hayes  =,-,  ""  \edAT\er\ec  OK  \epATDT\eT\er\ec  CONNECT
.iE
.LI
The \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O file on system \*Lmerlin\*O must contain
the following entry for the connection to system \*Lvenus\*O:
.iS
ACU  tty1  -  1200  hayes
.iE
.LI
The \*LDialers\*O file on system \*Lmerlin\*O must contain
the following entry for its modem:
.iS
hayes  =,-,  ""  \edAT\er\ec  OK  \epATDT\eT\er\ec  CONNECT
.iE
.LE
.SS "Troubleshooting Connection Problems"
.PP 
When establishing a connection between a local
and a remote system using a telephone line and modem, the \*Luucp\*O program
consults the \*LDialers\*O file.  (The \*Luucp\*O program also checks
the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O
file to make
sure it contains a listing for the specified remote computer.)  If
users report a faulty connection, use the
\*Luucico\*O command to debug
the connection problem.  For example, if users are experiencing
difficulties
connecting to remote system \*Lvenus\*O, enter:
.iS
/usr/lib/uucp/uucico  -r1  -svenus  -x9
.iE
where \*L-r1\*O specifies the server mode, \*L-svenus\*O is the
name of the remote system to which you are trying to connect,
and \*L-x9\*O is the debug level that produces the most detailed
debugging information.
.PP 
Expect-send debugging output produced by the
\*Luucico\*O command can come
either from information in the \*LDialers\*O file or from information
in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O file. If the
relevant line in the \*LDialers\*O file is not set up correctly
for the specified modem, the \*Luucp\*O program will probably display the
following error message:
.oS
DIALER SCRIPT FAILED\*O
.iE
.PP 
If the dialer script fails, verify the following:
.AL
.LI
Make sure that both the local and the remote modems are turned on, that
they are both set up correctly, and that the telephone number of the
remote modem is correct.
.LI
Check the \*LDialers\*O file and make sure the information
is correctly specified for the local modem.  If possible, check the 
\*LDialers\*O file on the remote system also.
.LI
Check the documentation that came with your modem to make sure you have
used the correct expect-send sequence characters in the \*LDialers\*O file.
.LE 
.SH "FILES"
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/*\*O"
Contains all the configuration files for the \*Luucp\*O program,
including the \*LDialers\*O file
.LI "\*Lusr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O"
Contains information about available devices
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Dialcodes\*O"
Contains dial-code abbreviations
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O"
Describes accessible remote systems
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Daemons: \*Luucico\*O(8)
.PP
Commands: \*Lct\*O(1), \*Lcu\*O(1), \*Luutry\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
