.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Dialcodes.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/09/11 20:21:00 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH Dialcodes 4
.SH NAME
\*LDialcodes\*O \- Contains the initial digits of telephone numbers used to establish remote connections over a telephone line
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Dialcodes\*O
.sE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
The \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Dialcodes\*O file contains the initial
digits of telephone numbers used by the \*Luucp\*O
program to establish remote connections over a telephone line.
The \*LDialcodes\*O file simplifies entries in the 
\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O file for sites
where a number of device telephone numbers have the same prefix.
If users at your site communicate regularly by way of telephone
lines and modems to multiple systems all located at the same remote
site, or to multiple systems located at different remote sites, use
dial-code abbreviations in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O file
rather than entering the complete telephone number of each remote modem
in that file.
.PP
The \*LDialcodes\*O file contains dial-code abbreviations and
partial telephone numbers that complete the telephone entries in
the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O file.
Entries in the \*LDialcodes\*O file contain an alphabetic prefix attached
to a partial telephone number that may include the following information,
in the order listed:
.AL
.LI
Codes for an outside line.
.LI
Long-distance access codes (\*L1\*O and the area code, if the modem is out 
of the local area).
.LI
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Added space before 'The' per QAR 6104.
The 3-digit exchange number.  The relevant alphabetic prefix 
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
(representing the partial telephone
number), together with the remaining four digits of that number, is
then entered in the\*V Phone\*O field in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O
file.
.LE 
.PP 
Following is the form of an entry in a \*LDialcodes\*O file:
.oS
\*VDialCodeAbbreviation\ \ DialingSequence\*O
.oE
.PP 
The \*VDialCodeAbbreviation\*O part of the entry is an alphabetic
prefix containing up to eight letters, established when setting up the
dial-code listing.
.PP 
The \*VDialingSequence\*O comprises
all the digits in the number that precede the actual 4-digit telephone
number.
.PP 
Note that if your site uses only a relatively small number of telephone
connections to remote systems, include the complete telephone numbers
of the remote modems in the\*L /usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O
file rather than using dial-code abbreviations.
.PP 
Enter each prefix \*Vonly once\*O in the \*LDialcodes\*O
file.  When you have set up a dial-code abbreviation, use that
prefix in all relevant entries in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O
file.
.PP 
Only someone with superuser authority can edit
the \*LDialcodes\*O file, which is owned by the \*Luucp\*O program
login ID.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP 
The \*LDialcodes\*O file on system \*Lvenus\*O contains
the following dial-code prefix for
use with a number in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O file:
.oS
local  9=555
.oE
.PP 
The \*LSystems\*O file on system \*Lvenus\*O contains the
following entry for system \*Lzeus\*O, including a telephone
number and a dial-code prefix:
.oS
zeus Any ACU 1200 local1212 in:--in: nuucp word: thunder
.oE
.PP 
When the uucp program on system \*Lvenus\*O dials system \*Lzeus\*O,
it uses the expanded telephone number \*L=5551212\*O.
.SH "FILES"
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/*\*O"
Contains all the configuration files for the \*Luucp\*O program, 
including the \*LDialcoddes\*O file
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O"
Contains information about available devices
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Dialers\*O" 
Specifies initial handshaking on a connection
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O"
Describes accessible remote systems
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands: \*Lcu\*O(1), \*Ltip\*O(1), \*Luucp\*O(1), \*Luuto\*O(1), \*Luux\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
