.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dir.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/21 15:47:47 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" 
.\" @(#)dir.5	6.1 (Berkeley) 5/15/85
.\" 
.TH dir 4
.SH NAME
\*Ldir\*O \- Format of directories
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>\*O
.nL
\*L#include <dirent.h>\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "dir" "format of directories"
.iX "files" "directory format"
.iX "format of directories"
A directory behaves like an ordinary file except that no
user may write into a directory.
The fact that a file is a directory is indicated by
a bit in the flag word of its inode entry. See the
\*Lfs\*O
reference page.
.PP 
The POSIX standard way of returning directory entries is in directory entry
structures, which are of variable length.  Each directory entry has
a struct direct at the front of it, containing its inode number,
the length of the entry, and the length of the name contained in
the entry.  These are followed by the name padded to a 4-byte boundary
with null bytes.  All names are guaranteed null terminated.
The maximum length of a name in a directory is _D_NAME_MAX.
.PP 
By convention, the first two entries in each directory
are for . (dot) and .. (dot-dot).  The first is an entry for the
directory itself.  The second is for the parent directory.
The meaning of .. (dot-dot) is modified for the root directory
(\|\*L/\*O\|) of the master file system,
where .. (dot-dot) has the same meaning as . (dot).
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lopendir\*O(3)
.PP 
Files:
\*Lfs\*O(4)
.iX "dir" "format of directories"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
