.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Directories.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 09:12:56 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH Directories 4
.SH NAME
\*LDirectories\*O \- Contains queued requests for file transfers and command executions on remote systems
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*VSystemName\*O
.sE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
The \*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*VSystemName\*O directories are the
\*Luucp \*O program spooling directories on the
local system.  The \*Luucp\*O program creates a \*VSystemName\*O directory
for each system listed in the \*L/usr/adm/uucp/Systems\*O file,
including the local system.
.PP 
Each \*VSystemName\*O directory contains queued requests issued
by local users for file transfers to remote systems and for command
executions on remote systems.
.PP 
The \*Luucp\*O program uses several types of administrative files to
transfer data between systems.  These files are stored in
the \*VSystemName\*O directories. They are:
.VL
.LI "\*LCommand\*O (\*LC.*\*O) files"
Contain directions for the \*Luucico\*O daemon concerning file transfers.
.LI "\*LData\*O (\*LD.*\*O) files"
Contain data to be sent to remote systems by the \*Luucico\*O daemon.
.LI "\*LExecute\*O (\*LX.*\*O) files"
Contain instructions for running commands on remote systems.
.LI "\*LTemporary\*O (\*LTM.*\*O) files"
Contain data files after their transfer to the remote system
until the \*Luucp\*O program can deliver them to their final destinations
(usually the \*L/usr/spool/uucppublic\*O directory).
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Daemons: \*Luucico\*O(8), \*Luusched\*O(8), \*Luuxqt\*O
.PP
Commands: \*Luucp\*O(1), \*Luux\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
