.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: disktab.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/21 15:46:01 $
.\" 
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)disktab.5	6.5 (Berkeley) 6/18/87
.\"
.TH disktab 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ldisktab\*O \- Disk description file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <disktab.h>\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "disktab database"
.iX "databases" "disktab"
.iX "geometry of disks"
The
\*Ldisktab\*O
database describes disk geometries and
disk partition characteristics.
It is used
to initialize the disk label on the disk.
The format is patterned
after the
\*Ltermcap\*O
terminal database.  Entries in a
\*Ldisktab\*O
file
consist of a number of : (colon) separated fields.  The
first entry for each disk gives the names which are
known for the disk, separated by | (vertical bar) characters.  The
last name given should be a long name fully identifying
the disk.
.PP
The following list indicates the normal values
stored for each disk entry:
.\" .nf
.\" .TS
.\" l l l.
.VL 0.75i
.LI "\f(HBName\fP"
\f(HBType	Description\fP
.LI "ty"
str	Type of disk (for example, removable, winchester)
.LI "dt"
str	Type of controller (for example, SMD, ESDI,
	floppy)
.LI "ns"
num	Number of sectors per track
.LI "nt"
num	Number of tracks per cylinder
.LI "nc"
num	Total number of cylinders on the disk
.LI "sc"
num	Number of sectors per cylinder, nc*nt default
.LI "su"
num	Number of sectors per unit, sc*nc default
.LI "se"
num	Sector size in bytes, DEV_BSIZE default
.LI "sf"
bool	Controller supports bad144-style bad sector
	forwarding
.LI "rm"
num	Rotation speed, rpm, default 3600
.LI "sk"
num	Sector skew per track, default 0
.LI "cs"
num	Sector skew per cylinder, default 0
.LI "hs"
num	Headswitch time, usec, default 0
.LI "ts"
num	One-cylinder seek time, usec, default 0
.LI "il"
num	Sector interleave (n:1), default 1
.LI "d[0-4]"
num	Drive-type-dependent parameters
.LI "bs"
num	Boot block size, default BBSIZE
.LI "sb"
num	Superblock size, default SBSIZE
.LI "ba"
num	Block size for partition `a' (bytes)
.LI "bd"
num	Block size for partition `d' (bytes)
.LI "be"
num	Block size for partition `e' (bytes)
.LI "bf"
num	Block size for partition `f' (bytes)
.LI "bg"
num	Block size for partition `g' (bytes)
.LI "bh"
num	Block size for partition `h' (bytes)
.LI "fa"
num	Fragment size for partition `a' (bytes)
.LI "fd"
num	Fragment size for partition `d' (bytes)
.LI "fe"
num	Fragment size for partition `e' (bytes)
.LI "ff"
num	Fragment size for partition `f' (bytes)
.LI "fg"
num	Fragment size for partition `g' (bytes)
.LI "fh"
num	Fragment size for partition `h' (bytes)
.LI "oa"
num	Offset of partition `a' in sectors
.LI "ob"
num	Offset of partition `b' in sectors
.LI "oc"
num	Offset of partition `c' in sectors
.LI "od"
num	Offset of partition `d' in sectors
.LI "oe"
num	Offset of partition `e' in sectors
.LI "of"
num	Offset of partition `f' in sectors
.LI "og"
num	Offset of partition `g' in sectors
.LI "oh"
num	Offset of partition `h' in sectors
.LI "pa"
num	Size of partition `a' in sectors
.LI "pb"
num	Size of partition `b' in sectors
.LI "pc"
num	Size of partition `c' in sectors
.LI "pd"
num	Size of partition `d' in sectors
.LI "pe"
num	Size of partition `e' in sectors
.LI "pf"
num	Size of partition `f' in sectors
.LI "pg"
num	Size of partition `g' in sectors
.LI "ph"
num	Size of partition `h' in sectors
.LI "ta"
str	Partition type of partition `a' (4.2BSD file system,
	swap, etc.)
.LI "tb"
str	Partition type of partition `b'
.LI "tc"
str	Partition type of partition `c'
.LI "td"
str	Partition type of partition `d'
.LI "te"
str	Partition type of partition `e'
.LI "tf"
str	Partition type of partition `f'
.LI "tg"
str	Partition type of partition `g'
.LI "th"
str	Partition type of partition `h'
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following is an example
\*Ldisktab\*O
entry:
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.PP
.oS
\*Crz25|RZ25|DEC RZ25 Winchester:\e
        \*C:ty=winchester:dt=SCSI:ns#62:nt#9:nc#1492:\e
        :oa#0:pa#131072:ba#8192:fa#1024:\e
        :ob#131072:pb#262144:bb#8192:fb#1024:\e
        :oc#0:pc#832527:bc#8192:fc#1024:\e
        :od#393216:pd#146437:bd#8192:fd#1024:\e
        :oe#539656:pe#146437:be#8192:fe#1024:\e
        :of#686096:pf#146437:bf#8192:ff#1024:\e
        :og#393216:pg#439311:bg#8192:fg#1024:\e
        :oh#0:ph#0:bh#8192:fh#1024:
.oE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/etc/disktab\*O
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetdiskbyname\*O(3)
.PP
Files:
\*Ldisklabel\*O(4)
.PP
Commands:
\*Ldisklabel\*O(8),
\*Lnewfs\*O(8)
.iX "disktab database"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
