.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dump.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/17 18:51:10 $
.\"
.TH dump 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ldumprestor\*O, \*Ldumpdates\*O \- Incremental dump format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>\*O
.nL
\*L#include <ufs/inode.h>\*O
.nL
.nL#include <protocols/dumprestore.h>\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "dump keyword"
.iX "dumprestor file" "format"
Tapes used by
\*Ldump\*O
and
\*Lrestore\*O
contain:
.VL
.LI "A header record"
.LI "Two groups of bit map records"
.LI "A group of records describing directories"
.LI "A group of records describing files"
.LE
.PP
The format of the header record and of the first
record of each description as given in the
include file \*L<dumprestor.h>\*O is:
.iX "dumprestor file" "format"
.oS
       #define NTREC           10

       #define TS_TAPE         1
       #define TS_INODE        2
       #define TS_BITS         3
       #define TS_ADDR         4
       #define TS_END          5
       #define TS_CLRI         6
       #define NFS_MAGIC       (int) 60012
       #define CHECKSUM        (int) 84446

       #define TP_BSIZE        1024
       #define TP_NINDIR       (TP_BSIZE/2)
       #define LBLSIZE         16
       #define NAMELEN         64
       struct  s_spcl {
               long            c_type;
               time_t          c_date;
               time_t          c_ddate;
               long            c_volume;
               daddr_t         c_tapea;
               ino_t           c_inumber;
               long            c_magic;
               long            c_checksum;
               struct          dinode          c_dinode;
               long            c_count;
               char            c_addr[TP_NINDIR];
               char            c_label[LBLSIZE];
               long            c_level;
               char            c_filesys[NAMELEN];
               char            c_dev[NAMELEN];
               char            c_host[NAMELEN];
               long            c_flags;
       } s_spcl;

       struct idates
       {
               char            id_name[NAME_MAX + 3];
               char            id_incno;
               time_t          id_ddate;
       };

       #define DUMPOUTFMT "%-16s %c %s"   /* for printf */
                                       /* name, incno, ctime(date) */
       #define DUMPINFMT  "%16s %c %[^\n]\n" /* inverse for scanf */


.oE
.PP
NTREC is the number of TP_BSIZE-byte records in a physical tape block.
.PP
The
TS_ entries are used in the
\*Vc_type\*O
field to indicate what sort of header
this is.
The types and their meanings are as follows:
.iX "dump file" "TS_entry list"
.VL
.LI "TS_TAPE"
Tape volume label.
.LI "TS_INODE"
A file or directory follows.
The
\*Vc_dinode\*O
field is a copy of the disk inode and contains
bits telling what sort of file this is.
.LI "TS_BITS"
A bit map follows.
This bit map has a one (1) bit
for each inode that was dumped.
.LI "TS_ADDR"
A subrecord of a file description.
See
\*Vc_addr\*O
described in the next list.
.LI "TS_END"
End of tape record.
.LI "TS_CLRI"
A bit map follows.
This bit map contains a zero bit for
all inodes that were empty on the file system when dumped.
.LI "NFS_MAGIC"
All header records have this number in
\*Vc_magic.\*O
.LI "CHECKSUM"
Header records checksum to this value.
.LE
.PP
The fields of the header structure are as follows:
.iX "dump file" "field reference list"
.VL
.LI "c_type"
The type of the header.
.LI "c_date"
The date of the dump.
.LI "c_ddate"
The date of the previous dump to the file system.
.LI "c_volume"
The current volume number of the dump.
.LI "c_tapea"
The current number of this (1024-byte) record.
.LI "c_inumber"
The number of the inode being dumped if this
is of type TS_INODE.
.LI "c_magic"
This contains the value MAGIC
above, truncated as needed.
.LI "c_checksum"
This contains whatever value is needed to
make the record sum to CHECKSUM.
.LI "c_dinode"
This is a copy of the inode as it appears on the
file system.  For further information, see
\*Lfs\*O(4).
.LI "c_count"
The count of characters in
\*Vc_addr.\*O
.LI "c_addr"
An array of characters describing the blocks of the
dumped file.
A character is zero if the block associated with that character was not
present on the file system; otherwise the character is nonzero.
If the block was not present on the file system, no block was dumped;
the block will be restored as a hole in the file.
If there is not sufficient space in this record to describe
all of the blocks in a file, TS_ADDR
records will be scattered through the file, each one
picking up where the last left off.
.LI "c_label"
The label of the dump.
.LI "c_level"
The level number of the dump.
.LI "c_filesys"
The name of the file system.
.LI "c_dev"
The name of the device.
.LI "c_host"
The name of the host.
.LI "c_flags"
Additional information such as whether the dump uses the format tape header
described here.
.LE
.PP
Each volume except the last ends with a tapemark (read as an end
of file).
The last volume ends with a TS_END
record and then the tapemark.
.PP
The structure
\*Vidates\*O
describes an entry in the file
\*L/etc/dumpdates\*O
where dump history is kept.
The fields of the structure are:
.iX "dumpdates file" "field reference list"
.VL
.LI "id_name"
The dumped filesystem is
.RI `/dev/ id_nam'.
.LI "id_incno"
The level number of the dump tape.  For further information,
see
\*Ldump\*O(8).
.LI "id_ddate"
The date of the incremental dump in system format.
For further information, see
\*Ltypes\O*(4).
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/etc/dumpdates\*O
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lfs\*O(4), \*Ldump\*O(8), \*Lrestore\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
