.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: errors.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/19 14:23:11 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH errors 4
.SH NAME
\*Lerrors\*O \- Contains a record of \*Luucico\*O daemon errors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Admin/errors
.sE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.iX "errors" "uucp errors file"
.iX "uucp" "errors file"
.\"End Digital correction.
The \*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Admin/errors\*O file contains a record
of \*Luucico\*O daemon errors that the \*Luucp\*O
program cannot correct.  For example, if the \*Luucico\*O daemon is unable
to access a directory that is needed for a file transfer, the \*Luucp\*O
program records this in the \*Lerrors\*O file.
If debugging is enabled for the \*Luucico\*O daemon, the \*Luucp\*O
program sends the error messages to standard output instead of to
the \*Lerrors\*O file.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
Following is the text of an error that might appear in the \*Lerrors\*O
file:
.oS
ASSERT\ ERROR\ (uucico)\ pid:\ 303\ (7/18-8:25:09)\e
SYSTAT\ OPEN\ FAIL\ /usr/spool/uucp/.Status/\ (21)\e
[SCCSID:\ @(#)systat.c\ \ \ 7.2\ 87/07/08\ 16:43:37,\e
FILE:\ systat.c,\ LINE:100]
.oE
.PP
This error occurred on July 18 at 8:25:09 a.m.
[\*C(7/18-8:25:09)\*O]
when the \*Luucico\*O daemon, running as process
303 [\*C(uucico)\ pid:\ 303\*O], could not open the
\*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Status\*O directory
[\*CSYSTAT\ OPEN\ FAIL /usr/spool/uucp/.Status/\*O].
To prevent this
error from occurring again, you should make sure the
permissions for the \*L.Status\*O directory are correct.  It
should be owned by the \*Luucp\*O login ID and group \*Luucp\*O,
with permissions of \*L777\*O (read, write, and execute for owner, group,
and all others).
.SH "FILES"
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/\&.Admin/*\*O"
Contains the \*Lerrors\*O file and other uucp administrative files
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/\&.Status/\*VSystemName\*O"
Lists the last time a remote system was contacted and the
minimum time until the next retry
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands: \*Luudemon.cleanu\*O(4)
.PP
Daemons: \*Luucico\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
