.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ethers.4,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/05 19:26:42 $
.\"
.TH ethers 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lethers\*O \- Database that maps Ethernet addresses to hostnames
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ethernet database"
The \*L/etc/ethers\*O
.iX "ethers file" "description"
file is used in conjunction with the reverse address resolution
protocol daemon (\*Lrarpd\*O)
to map Ethernet addresses to hostnames.
It contains information about the
known (48-bit) Ethernet addresses of hosts on the Internet.
.PP
For each host on an Ethernet,
a single line should be present in the file with the following information:
.sS
.sp
\*VEthernet-address        official-host-name\*O
.sp
.sE
.PP
Items are separated by one or more spaces or tabs.
A number sign (#) indicates the beginning of a comment
that extends to the end of line.
.PP
The standard form for Ethernet addresses is:
.sS
.sp
\*Vx:x:x:x:x:x\*O
.sp
.sE
.PP
The \*Vx\*O
is a hexadecimal number between 0 and ff, representing 1 byte.
The address bytes are always in network order.
.PP
Hostnames can contain any printable character other than a
space, tab, newline, or number sign (#).
.PP
Hostnames in the \*L/etc/ethers\*O
file should correspond to the hostnames in the \*L/etc/hosts\*O
file or to those provided by the name service.
.iX "ethers file" "host name restrictions"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following is a sample \*Lethers\*O
file:
.oS
.sp
08:00:20:01:e5:1c       host1        # Comments go here
08:00:20:01:d0:4c       host2        # Comments go here
08:00:20:01:e0:1d       host3        # Comments go here
08:00:20:00:c2:4e       host4        # Comments go here
.sp
.oE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lrarpd\*O(8)
.PP
Files: \*Lhosts\*O(4), \*Lpacketfilter\*O(7)
.PP
Routines: \*Lethers\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
