.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Execute.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/16 16:16:37 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH Execute 4
.SH NAME
\*LExecute \*O \- Contains instructions for running commands that require the resources of a remote system
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*VSystemName/\*LX.\*VRemoteSystemNxxxx\*O
.sE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
The \*LExecute\*O (\*LX.*\*O) files contain
instructions for running \*Luucp\*O commands that require the resources of a
remote system.  They are created by the \*Luux\*O command.
The full pathname of a \*Luux\*O command execute file is a
form of the following:
.iS
/usr/spool/uucp/\*VSystemName/\*LX.\*VRemoteSystemNxxxx\*O
.iE
.PP 
where the \*VSystemName\*O directory is named for the local
computer and the \*VRemoteSystem \*Odirectory is named for the
remote system.  The\*V N\*O character represents the grade of the
work, and the\*V xxxx\*O notation is the 4-digit hexadecimal
transfer-sequence number; for example, \*LX.zeusN2121\*O.
.PP 
Note that the grade of the work specifies when the file
is to be transmitted during a particular connection.  The grade notation
is a single number (\*L0\*O to \*L9\*O) or letter (\*LA\*O to \*LZ\*O, 
\*La\*O to \*Lz\*O).  Lower sequence characters cause the file to be 
transmitted earlier in the connection than do higher sequence characters.  
The number \*L0\*O (zero) is the highest grade, signifying
the earliest transmittal; \*Lz\*O is the lowest grade, signifying the latest
transmittal.  The default grade is \*VN\*O.
.SS "Standard Entries in an Execute File"
.PP 
An execute file consists of several lines, each with an identification
character and one or more entries:
.VL 23
.LI "\f(HBLine\fP"
\f(HBFormat and Description\fP
.LI "User Line" 
\*LU\*O \*VUserName SystemName\*O
.IP
Specifies the login name of the user issuing the
\*Luux\*O command and the name of the system from
which the command was issued.
.LI "Error Status Line"
\*LN\*O or \*LZ\*O
.IP
Indicates the error status.
.IP
The \*LN\*O character means that a failure message is \*Vnot\*O
sent to the user issuing the \*Luux\*O command if the specified
command does not execute successfully on the remote system.
.IP
The \*LZ\*O character means that a failure message is sent
to the user issuing the \*Luux\*O command if the specified
command does not execute successfully on the remote system.
.LI "Requester's Name"
\*LR\*O  \*VUserName\*O
.IP
Specifies the login ID of the user requesting the remote command execution.
.LI "Required File Line"
\*LF\*O  \*VFileName\*O
.IP
Contains the names of the files required to execute the specified
command on the remote system.  The \*VFileName\*O parameter can
be either the complete pathname of the file, including the unique
transmission name assigned by the \*Luucp\*O program, or simply the 
transmission name without any path information.
.IP
The Required File Line can contain zero or more filenames.
The \*Luuxqt\*O daemon checks for the existence of all listed files
before running the specified command.
.LI "Standard Input Line"
\*LI \*VFileName\*O
.IP
Specifies the standard input to be used.
.IP
The standard input is either specified by a \*L<\*O (less than) symbol
in the command string, or is inherited from the standard input of the
\*Luux\*O command if that command was issued with the \*L-\*O (dash) flag.
If standard input is specified, it also is listed in an \*LF\*O
(Required File) line.  If standard input is not specified, the \*Luucp\*O
program uses the \*L/dev/null\*O device file.
.LI "Standard Output Line"
\*LO \*O \*VFileName SystemName\*O
.IP
Specifies the names of the file and system that are to receive standard
output from the execution of the command. Standard output is specified by
a \*L>\*O (greater than) symbol within the command string.
(The \*L>>\*O sequence is not valid in \*Luux\*O commands.)  As was
the case with standard input, if standard output is not specified,
the \*Luucp\*O program uses the \*L/dev/null\*O device file.
.LI "Command Line"
\*LC\*O  \*VCommandString\*O
.IP
This is the command string that the user requests to be run on the
specified system.  The \*Luucp\*O program checks the
\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Permissions\*O file on
the designated computer to see whether the login ID can run the command
on that system.
All required files go to the execute file directory,
usually \*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Xqtdir\*O.
After execution, the standard output is sent to the requested location
.LE 
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.AL
.LI
User \*Lfong\*O on local system \*Lzeus\*O enters
the following command:
.iS
uux - "diff /u/fong/out hera!/u/fong/out2 > ~uucp/DF"
.iE
.PP
This invokes the \*Luux\*O command to run a \*Ldiff\*O command on the
local system, comparing file \*L/u/fong/out\*O with file \*L/u/fong/out2\*O,
which is stored on remote system \*Lhera\*O.  The
output of the comparison is placed in the \*LDF\*O file in the
public directory on the local system.
.IP
This command produced the \*L/usr/spool/uucp/hera/X.zeusN212F\*O
execute file, which contains the following information:
.oS
U fong zeus
# return status on failure
Z
# return address for status or input return
R fong
F /usr/spool/uucp/hera/D.herale954fd out2
O ~uucp/DF zeus
C diff /u/fong/out out2
.oE
.PP
The user line identifies user \*Lfong\*O on system \*Lzeus\*O.
The error status line indicates that \*Lfong\*O will receive a
failure status message if the \*Ldiff\*O command fails to
execute.  The requester is \*Lfong\*O, and the file required to
execute the command is the following data file:
.oS
/usr/spool/uucp/hera/D.herale954fd out2
.oE
.PP
The output of the command is to be written to the public directory
on system \*Lzeus\*O with the filename \*LDF\*O.  (Remember
that  \*L~uucp\*O is the shorthand way of specifying the public
directory.)  The final line is the command string that user \*Lfong\*O
entered with the \*Luux\*O command.
.LI
The following is another example of an execute file:
.oS
U uucp hera
# don't return status on failure
N
# return address for status or input return
R uucp
F D.hera5eb7f7b
I D.hera5eb7f7b
C rmail fong
.oE
.PP
This indicates that user \*Luucp\*O on system \*Lhera\*O
is sending mail to user \*Lfong\*O, who is also working on system \*Lhera\*O.
.LE 
.SH "FILES"
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Permissions\*O"
Describes access permissions for remote systems
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O"
Describes accessible remote systems
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*VSystemName/*\*O"
Contains uucp command, data, and execute files
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*VSystemName/\*LC.*\*O"
Contain instructions for transfers
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Xqtdir/*\*O"
Contains lists of commands that remote systems are permitted to execute
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucppublic/*\*O"
Contains files that have been transferred
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Daemons: \*Luuxqt\*O
.PP
Commands: \*Ldiff\*O(1), \*Luux\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
