.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: exports.4,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/15 20:18:30 $
.\"
.TH exports 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lexports\*O \- Defines remote mount points for NFS mount requests
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/etc/exports\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "exports"
.iX "NFS" "export"
.iX "etc/exports"
.iX "mount" "points"
.iX "mount" "requests"
The
\*Lexports\*O
file
specifies remote mount points for the NFS mount protocol per the NFS
server specification (see
\*ENetwork File System Protocol Specification, RFC1094\*O).
.PP
Each entry in the \*L/etc/exports\*O
file consists of a file system or directory
name followed by an optional list of options or
an optional list of identifiers or both. The identifiers
define which remote hosts can mount that particular file system
or directory.
The identifiers listed beside the name of each file system or directory
can be either host names, IP addresses, or NIS netgroups names.
If no identifiers are listed, the entry is exported to all hosts.
.PP
The format of the exports file is as follows:
.sS
.sp
\*Vpathname\*O [\*Loption\*O ...] [\*Videntifier\*O ...]
.sp
.nl
\*L#comments\*O
.sp
.sE
.PP
The \*Vpathname\*O specifies the name of a mounted local file system or
a directory of a mounted local file system.  The \*Vpathname\*O must begin
in column 1.
.PP
The following are valid export file options:
.VL
.LI "\*L-root=0\*O"
Maps client superuser access to uid 0 for all hosts mounting this
path.  If you want to
allow client superusers access to the file system or
directory with the same permissions as a local superuser,
use \*L-root=0\*O.  Use \*L-root=0\*O only if you trust the
superuser on the client system.  The default is for client
superusers to be mapped to uid -2, which maps a
client superuser to nobody.  This limits access to world
accessible files.  If both the \*L-root=0\*O option and the
\*L-anon=uid\*O option are used, the root option overrides the
uid specified in anon for client superusers.  The \*L-r\*O option
is a synonym for \*L-root\*O for backward compatibility.
.LI "\*L-root=\*Vhostlist\*O"
Maps the client superusers on the specified hosts only to uid 0.
The format for the \*Vhostlist\*O argument is as follows:
.oS
.sp
\*Vclient\*O[:\*Vclient\*O]...
.sp
.oE
The \*Vclient\*O specification
can be a host name or IP address.
By default, client superusers are mapped to -2.
This option overrides the uid specified in \*L-anon=uid\*O for
client superusers in \*Vhostlist\*O.
.LI "\*L-anon=\*Vuid\*O"
Maps anonymous users to the specified \*Vuid\*O.  Client superusers are
considered anonymous by the NFS server, as are requests that come
in without UNIX authentication.  By default, anonymous users are
mapped to uid -2.  Setting anon to -1 disables anonymous access.
.LI "\*L-ro\*O"
The file system or directory is exported read-only (default is read-write).
The \*L-o\*O option is a synonym for \*L-ro\*O for backward
compatibility.
.LI "\*L-rw=\*Vhostlist\*O"
Limits read-write access to the hosts specified.  All other hosts
allowed to mount this path are granted read-only access.
The format for the \*Vhostlist\*O argument is as follows:
.oS
.sp
\*Vclient\*O[:\*Vclient\*O]...
.sp
.oE
The \*Vclient\*O specification
can be a host name or IP address.
If both the \*L-ro\*O and \*L-rw=hostlist\*O options are specified,
\*L-rw\*O prevails.
.LI "\*L-access=\*Vhostlist\*O"
Specifies the hosts to grant mount access to.
The format for the \*Vhostlist\*O argument is as follows:
.oS
.sp
\*Vclient\*O[:\*Vclient\*O]...
.sp
.oE
The \*Vclient\*O specification
can be a host name, IP address, or NIS network group.
This option is provided for readability and compatibility with
certain export file formats.  Alternatively, to identify the
client systems who are allowed access to this export use the whitespace
separated identifier list described below.
.LE
.PP
The options can be applied to both file system and directory
entries in \*L/etc/exports\*O.
.PP
Alternatively, you can list options using only one leading dash
and separating them with commas as in \*L-option[,option]...\*O.
.PP
You use the \*Videntifier\*O field to specify
host names, network groups, or both, separated by white space that
specify the access list for this export.  Host names can optionally
contain the local BIND domain name.
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.rS 5
If no hosts or netgroups are specified, the \*Lmount\*O
daemon exports this file system or directory to anyone requesting it.
See the mountd(8) reference page for information on how to limit
this scope to known hosts or to hosts in the same Bind domain.
.sp 6p
.rE
.PP
A number sign (#) anywhere in the line marks a comment that
extends to the end of that line.
.PP
A whitespace character in the left-most position of a line indicates a
continuation line.
.PP
For example, suppose you enter:
.iS
.sp
/usr -root=0 milan kuan_yin.cis.berkeley.edu
/usr/local 555.555.55.55
/u2 -ro
/u3/dir1 -rw=milan:venice:florence
/u3/dir2 -root=milan,access=venice:florence
/u3/dir3 -root=0,access=milan:venice:florence
/u3/dir4 -root=0 milan venice florence
/u3/dir5 -root=milan -anon=-1
.sp
.iE
If \*L/usr\*O, \*L/u2\*O and \*L/u3\*O are
local file system mount points, this specifies the following:
.ML
.LI
\*L/usr\*O
is exported read-write to hosts \*Lmilan\*O and
\*Lkuan_yin.cis.berkeley.edu\*O with root mapped to \*Luid=0\*O.
.LI
\*L/usr/local\*O
is exported read-write to host \*L555.555.55.55\*O with root mapped to -2.
(For security reasons, this example uses the fictitious IP address
\*L555.555.55.55\*O.)
.LI
\*L/u2\*O
is exported to all hosts read-only with root mapped to -2.
.LI
\*L/u3/dir1\*O
is exported read-write to hosts milan, venice, and florence and
read-only to all other hosts.  For all hosts, root is mapped to -2.
.LI
\*L/u3/dir2\*O
is exported with root mapped to 0 to host milan.  Hosts milan, venice,
and florence are allowed to mount this directory read-write.  Root on
hosts venice and florence is mapped to -2.
.LI
\*L/u3/dir3\*O
is exported read-write and with root mapped to 0 to hosts milan,
venice, and florence.
.LI
\*L/u3/dir4\*O
is exported in the same manner as the previous example.
.LI
\*L/u3/dir5\*O
is exported read-write to all hosts.  Anonymous users are not allowed
to mount this directory, with the exception of the client superuser on
host milan.  Root is mapped to 0 on host milan and to -2 on all other
hosts.
.LE
.PP
Each file system that you want to allow clients to mount must be
explicitly defined.  Exporting only the root (/) will not allow clients
to mount \*L/usr\*O.  Exporting only \*L/usr\*O will not allow clients
to mount \*L/usr/local\*O, if it is a file system.
.PP
Duplicate directory entries are not allowed.  The first entry is valid
and following duplicates are ignored.
.PP
Desired export options must be explicitly specified for each exported
resource: file system or directory.  If a file system and subdirectories
within it are exported, the options associated with the file system are
not ``inherited.''  You do not need to export an entire file system to allow
clients to mount subdirectories within it.
.PP
The access list associated with each exported resource identifies which
clients can mount that resource with the specified options.  For
example, you can export an entire file system read-only, with a
subdirectory within it exported read-write to a subset of clients.
If a client that is not identified in the export access list of a directory
attempts to mount it, then access is checked against the closest exported
ancestor.  If mount access is allowed at a higher level in the directory
tree of the file system, the export options associated with the successful
match will be in effect.
.PP
To make a change to the exports file and have it take effect
immediately, send the mountd(8) a HUP signal.  Otherwise, the mountd(8)
will reread the exports file the next time it receives a mount request
from an NFS client or a showmount -e request.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Daemons: \*Lmountd\*O(8), \*Lnfsd\*O(8)
.PP
Commands: \*Lshowmount\*O(8)
.PP
Files: \*Lhosts\*O(4), \*Lnetgroup\*O(4)
.br
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
.br
\*ENetwork Administration and Problem Solving\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
