.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: fdmns.4,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/22 20:51:49 $
.\"
.TH fdmns 4
.PP
.\"
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lfdmns\*O \- contains file domain names and devices
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "File domain" "link to volume"
.iX "Volume" "link to file domain"
The \*Lfdmns\*O directory ensures access to file domains by
providing symbolic links to every volume in the file domain. The \*Lmkfdmn\*O,
\*Lrmvol\*O, and \*Laddvol\*O utilities automatically manage the \*Lfdmns\*O directory.
Each file domain is described by its own subdirectory within the
\*Lfdmns\*O directory.
.PP
Back up the \*Lfdmns\*O directory structure regularly using the \*Lvdump\*O
utility or any other backup utility (\*Ldump\*O, \*Ltar\*O, \*Lcpio\*O). If the
contents of the \*Lfdmns\*O directory are deleted or corrupted, restore
the directory from your most recent backup tape.  You must also restore the
\*Lfdmns\*O directory after installing a new version of the operating
system.
.PP
Always keep a hardcopy record of each file domain and its associated volumes
in case a backup copy of the \*Lfdmns\*O directory is unavailable.
If you have a record, you can reconstruct the \*Lfdmns\*O directory structure.
The following is a sample \*Lfdmns\*O directory:

.oS

total 2
drwxr-x---	2 root	system	512 Nov 24 18:35 scratch/
drwxr-xr-x	2 root	system	512 Nov 24 18:35 usr/

 ./scratch:
total 0
1rwxr-x---	1 root	system	10 Oct 23 15:13 rz10c@ -> /dev/rz10c
1rwxr-x---	1 root	system	10 Oct 24 11:33 rz11c@ -> /dev/rz11c
1rwxr-x---	1 root	system	 9 Oct 13 18:29 rz8c@ -> /dev/rz8c

 ./usr:
total 0
1rwxr-x---	1 root	system	 9 Oct 24 10:52 rz2g@ -> /dev/rz2c
1rwxr-x---	1 root	system	 9 Nov 24 10:35 rz9c@ -> /dev/rz9c
.oE
Note that you must purchase a license for the POLYCENTER
Advanced File System Utilities layered product in order to create
multi-volume domains and to use the \*Laddvol\*O and \*Lrmvol\*O
utilities.
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
\*EDo not remove or modify the contents of this directory.\*O If the
\*Lfdmns\*O file becomes corrupted, you can no longer access (or mount) any
fileset in the file domains.
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.\" 
.\" format = \*Ldefgh_refpg\*O(1), etc
.\"
.\" Un/comment related manpgs as approp.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" 
\*Ladvfs\*O(4),
.\" \*Laddvol\*O(8),
\*Lvdump\*O(8),
.\"
\*Lmkfdmn\*O(8),
.\"
.\"
\*Lvrestore\*O(8),
.\"
.\"
\*Lshowfdmn\*O(8).
.\"
.\"
.\"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
