.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: files.4,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:23:51 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"
.\"build rmifdef
.\" @(#)files.4	1.1 09:57:22 6/3/91 SecureWare, Inc.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 SecureWare, Inc.
.\"   All rights reserved
.\"
.TH files 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lfiles\*O \- File control database  (Enhanced Security)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "files file"
.iX file files
.iX database "file control"
.iX "file control database"
The file control database (\*L/etc/auth/system/files\*O)
is designed to help the Information
System Security Officer (ISSO)
maintain the integrity of the system. The database contains entries
for system data files and executable files that
require certain attributes. Some
files require certain attributes to provide protection against unauthorized
access, while others require a specific set of attributes to accomplish their
intended function.
.PP
The database is used by the
library routine \*Lcreate_file_securely()\*O to determine the set of
attributes for a newly created file. Many programs associated with the
trusted computing base (TCB) have
use this library routine for file creation to
ensure that file attributes are set correctly.
.PP
A broad range of attributes can be specified in the
file control database. Specific choices depend upon the exact system
configuration. These choices are:
.VL
.LI "\*Lf_owner\*O"
This field specifies the owner name for the entry. If an owner name is not
specified for an entry and the entry is created using
\*Lcreate_file_securely\*O, the owner of the file will be the real
user ID of the process creating the file.
.LI "\*Lf_group\*O"
This field specifies the group name for the entry. If a group name is not
specified for an entry and the entry is created using
\*Lcreate_file_securely\*O, the group of the file will be the real
group ID of the process creating the file.
.LI "\*Lf_mode\*O"
This field specifies the mode word for the entry. If the mode word is not
specified and \*Lcreate_file_securely\*O is used to create the entry, a mode
word of 0 (zero) is assigned to the new file.
.LI "\*Lf_type\*O"
This field identifies the type of the entry.
This field is not taken into account by \*Lcreate_file_securely\*O when a file
is being created. The library routine will only create regular files.
Choices for the type field include:
.VL 5
.LI "\*Lr\*O"
Regular file
.LI "\*Ld\*O"
Directory
.LI "\*Lf\*O"
FIFO device (pipe)
.LI "\*Lc\*O"
Character special device
.LI "\*Lb\*O"
Block special device
.LI "\*Ls\*O"
Socket
.LE
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example is a typical file control database entry
for the program \*L/sbin/newfs\*O:
.oS
/sbin/newfs:f_owner=root:f_group=bin:\e
        :f_type=r:f_mode#04111:\e
        :chkent:
.oE
.P
The entry specifies that the \*Lnewfs\*O program will have \*Lbin\*O as the
owner and group of the file, that the file is a regular file,
and that its mode should be \*L0111\(O.
.PP
The following example shows an entry for a site-specific
directory that contains help files for an application:
.oS
/appl/help_files:f_owner=appladmin:f_group=appl:\e
	:f_type=d:f_mode#0750:\e
	:chkent;
.oE
The entry specifies that the owner of the \*L/appl/help_files\*O directory
should be \*Lappladmin\*O, the group should be \*Lappl\*O, and the
mode should be \*L0750\*O.
.SH "FILES"
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/auth/system/files"
Specifies the pathname of the file control database.
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
.\" Commands:
.\"  \*Lchacl(1)\*O,
.\" \*Lintegrity(8)\*O
.\" , \*Lsetfiles(8)\*O
Functions: \*Lgetprfient(3)\*O
.PP
Files: \*Lauthcap(4)\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
