.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: filehdr.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/17 18:53:47 $
.\"
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright Unpublished, MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.  All Rights |
.\" | Reserved.  This software contains proprietary and confidential |
.\" | information of MIPS and its suppliers.  Use, disclosure or     |
.\" | reproduction is prohibited without the prior express written   |
.\" | consent of MIPS.                                               |
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Header: /usr/doc/osf1doc/refpages/rcs/src/BASE/DEC/man4/filehdr.4,v 3.2.4.3 1993/12/17 18:53:47 Blaise_Corcoran Exp $
.TH filehdr 4
.SH NAME
\*Lfilehdr\*O \- File header for object files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "filehdr.h header file"
.iX "header files" "filehdr.h"
.sS
\*L#include < filehdr.h>\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Every object file begins with a header.  The following C
\*Lstruct\*O
declaration is used:
.PP
.oS
.ps -2
struct filehdr
{
    unsigned short f_magic; /* magic number */
    unsigned short f_nscns; /* number of sections */
    int f_timdat; /* time & date stamp */
    long f_symptr; /* file pointer to symbolic header */
    int  f_nsyms; /* sizeof(symbolic header) */
    unsigned short f_opthdr; /* sizeof(optional header) */
    unsigned short f_flags; /* flags */
};
.ps +2
.oE
.PP
\*Vf_symptr\*O
is the byte offset into the file at which the symbolic header can be found.
Its value can be used as the offset in \*Lfseek\*O(3) to
position an I/O stream to the symbolic header. \*Vf_nsyms\*O  
contains the size of the
symbolic header.  The valid magic numbers are given below:
.PP
.oS
.ps -3
#define ALPHAMAGIC	0603    /* object file */
#define ALPHAUMAGIC	0617	/* ucode object file */
.ps +3
.oE
.PP
The value in
\*Vf_timdat\*O
is obtained from the \*Ltimes\*O(3) system call.  Flag bits used in
objects are:
.PP
.oS
.ps -2
#define F_RELFLG 0000001 /* relocation entries stripped */
#define F_EXEC 0000002 /* file is executable */
#define F_LNNO 0000004 /* line numbers stripped */
#define F_LSYMS 0000010 /* local symbols stripped */
.ps +2
.oE
.PP
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Ltimes\*O(3), \*Lfseek\*O(3), \*La.out\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
