.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Foreign.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/19 13:40:18 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH Foreign 4
.SH NAME
\*LForeign\*O \- Logs contact attempts from unknown systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/lib/uucp/.Admin/Foreign
.sE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.iX "Foreign" "uucp log"
.iX "uucp" "Foreign"
.\"End Digital correction.
The \*L/usr/lib/uucp/.Admin/Foreign\*O file lists access attempts
by unknown systems.
The \*L/usr/lib/uucp/remote.unknown\*O shell
script appends an entry to the \*LForeign\*O file each time a remote
computer that is not listed in the local \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O
file attempts to communicate with that local system.
.PP
Someone with superuser authority can customize entries in the \*LForeign\*O
file to fit the needs of a specific site by modifying the \*Lremote.unknown\*O
shell script.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
The following is a sample entry in the \*LForeign\*O file:
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\"Too wide changed coding.
.sp
\*CWed Sep 20 20:38:22 CDT 1989: call from the system merlin\*O
.sp
.\"End Digital correction.
.PP
System \*Lmerlin\*O, which is not listed in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O
file, attempted to log in on September 20 at 10:38 p.m., but
the \*Luucp\*O program did not allow the unknown system to log in.
.SH "FILES"
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Permissions\*O"
Describes access permissions for remote systems
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O"
Describes accessible remote systems
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/remote.unknown\*O"
Records contacts from unknown systems in the \*LForeign\*O file
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/.Admin/*\*O"
Contains the \*LForeign\*O file and other uucp administrative files
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands: \*Luucp\*O(1), \*Luudemon.cleanu\*O(4), \*Luux\*O(1)
.PP
Daemons: \*Lcron\*O(8), \*Luucico\*O(8), \*Luuxqt(1)\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
