.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ftpusers.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/18 18:39:08 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH ftpusers 4
.SH NAME
\*Lftpusers\*O \- The \*Lftpd\*O security file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/etc/ftpusers
.sE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "ftpusers command"
The \*Lftpd\*O security file rejects remote logins to local user accounts specified
in \*L/etc/ftpusers\*O.  Restricted accounts appear one to a line; white
space is prohibited.  Account names must match exactly the user
account name in the \*L/etc/passwd\*O file.  If the file does not exist,
\*Lftpd\*O does not do security checks.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
The following are sample entries in an \*L/etc/ftpusers\*O
file:
.oS
root
guest
ftp
user1
UUCP
.oE
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\" Removed the period that followed "information".
.SH "FILES"
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O"
Contains user information not to be used by the remote File Transfer Protocol
users.
.LE 
.\"End Digital correction.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands: \*Lftp\*O(1)
.PP
Daemons: \*Lftpd\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
