.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: gated.conf.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/16 17:41:02 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
.TH gated.conf 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgated.conf\*O \- Contains configuration information for the \*Lgated \*Odaemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "gated.conf"
.iX "file" "gated daemon"
.iX "gated daemon"
.iX "daemon" "gated"
.sS
\*L/etc/gated.conf
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*L/etc/gated.conf\*O file contains configuration information
that is read by the
\*Lgated\*O daemon at initialization
time. This file contains stanzas that
control tracing options, select routing protocols, manage routing information,
and manage independent system routing.
.PP
Stanzas can appear in any order in the \*Lgated.conf\*O file.
The following sections describe the format of each stanza.
.SS Controlling Trace Output
The option that controls trace output is read during the initialization
of the \*Lgated\*O daemon and whenever the \*Lgated\*O daemon receives a
\*LSIGHUP\*O signal. This
option is overridden at initialization time if trace flags are specified
to the \*Lgated\*O daemon on the command line.
.PP
The \*Ltraceflags\*O stanza is in the following format;
it tells the \*Lgated\*O daemon what level of trace output you want.
.iS
traceflags \*VFlag\*O [\*VFlag Flag\*O \&...]
.iE
.PP
The valid flags for tracing are as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Linternal\*O"
Logs all internal errors and interior routing
errors
.LI "\*Lexternal\*O"
Logs all external errors due to Exterior Gateway Protocol (EGP), exterior
routing errors, and EGP state changes
.LI "\*Lroute\*O"
Logs all routing changes
.LI "\*Legp\*O"
Traces all EGP packets sent and received
.LI "\*Lupdate\*O"
Logs all routing updates sent
.LI "\*Lrip\*O"
Traces all Routing Information Protocol (RIP) packets received
.LI "\*Lhello\*O"
Traces all HELLO packets received
.LI "\*Ltimestamp\*O"
Prints a timestamp to the log file every 10
minutes
.LI "\*Lgeneral\*O"
Combines the \*Linternal\*O, \*Lexternal\*O,\*L
route\*O, and \*Legp\*O flags
.LI "\*Lall\*O"
Enables all of the listed trace flags
.LE
.PP
If more than one \*Ltraceflags\*O stanza is used, the trace
flags specified in all stanzas are enabled.
.SS "Selecting Routing Protocols"
This section explains the configuration options for routing protocols.
These options provide the
\*Lgated\*O daemon with
instructions on how to manage routing for each protocol.
.PP
All references to point-to-point interfaces
in the \*Lgated\*O configuration file must use the address specified
by the \*VDestination\*O parameter.
.PP
\f(HBUsing the gated Daemon with the RIP Protocol\fP
.PP
The following stanza tells the \*Lgated\*O daemon how to
perform the RIP routing protocol.
.iS
RIP \*VArgument\*O
.iE
Only one of the following RIP \*VArguments\*O is allowed after
the \*LRIP\*O keyword. Since only the first argument is recognized
if more than one is specified, choose the argument that describes
the type of RIP routing you need.
A list of the arguments to the \*LRIP\*O stanza follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lyes\*O"
Performs the RIP protocol, processing all incoming
RIP packets and supplying RIP information every 30 seconds only if
there are two or more network interfaces.
.LI "\*Lno\*O"
Specifies that the RIP protocol not be performed.
.LI "\*Lsupplier\*O"
Performs the RIP protocol, processing all incoming
RIP packets and forcing the supply of RIP information every 30 seconds
no matter how many network interfaces are present.
.LI "\*Lpointopoint\*O"
Performs the RIP protocol, processing all
incoming RIP packets and forcing the supply of RIP information every
30 seconds no matter how many network interfaces are present. When
this argument is specified, RIP information is not sent out in a broadcast
packet. The RIP information is sent directly to the gateways listed
in the \*Lsourceripgateways\*O stanza.
.LI "\*Lquiet\*O"
Processes all incoming RIP packets, but does not
supply any RIP information no matter how many network interfaces are
present.
.LI "\*Lgateway \*VHopCount\*O"
Processes all incoming RIP
packets, supplying RIP information every 30 seconds and announcing
the default route (network 0.0.0.0) with a metric specified by the
\*VHopCount\*O variable. The metric should be specified in a value
that represents
a RIP hop count.
.LE
.PP
With this option set, all other default routes coming from other
RIP gateways are ignored. The default route is only announced when
actively peering with at least one EGP
neighbor and therefore should
only be used when EGP is used.
.PP
If no \*LRIP\*O stanza is specified, RIP routing is not performed.
.PP
\f(HBUsing the gated Daemon with the HELLO Protocol\fP
.PP
The following stanza configures the Defense Communications Network
Local Network Protocol (HELLO) routing protocol
for the \*Lgated\*O  daemon:
.iS
HELLO \*VArgument\*O
.iE
The \*VArgument \*Ovariable parallels the RIP arguments, with
some minor differences.
.PP
As with RIP, only one of the following HELLO \*VArguments\*O
is allowed after the \*LHELLO\*O keyword. Since only the first
argument is recognized if more than one is specified, choose the argument
that describes the type of RIP routing you need.
.PP
A list of the arguments to the \*LHELLO\*O stanza follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lyes\*O"
Performs the HELLO protocol, processing all incoming
HELLO packets and supplying HELLO information every 15 seconds only
if there are two or more network interfaces.
.LI "\*Lno\*O"
Specifies that this gateway does not perform the HELLO
protocol.
.LI "\*Lsupplier\*O"
Performs the HELLO protocol, processing all
incoming HELLO packets and forcing a supply of HELLO information every
15 seconds no matter how many network interfaces are present.
.LI "\*Lpointopoint\*O"
Performs the HELLO protocol, processing all
incoming HELLO packets and forcing a supply of HELLO information every
15 seconds no matter how many network interfaces are present.
.IP
When this argument is specified, HELLO information is not sent
out in a broadcast packet. The HELLO information is sent directly
to the gateways listed in the \*Lsourcehellogateways\*O
stanza.
.LI "\*Lquiet\*O"
Processes all incoming HELLO packets, but does
not supply any HELLO information regardless of the number of network
interfaces present.
.LI "\*Lgateway \*VMilliSeconds\*O"
Processes all incoming HELLO
packets, supplying HELLO information every 15 seconds and announcing
the default route (network 0.0.0.0) with a time delay specified by the
\*VMilliSeconds\*O variable. The time delay should be a numeric value
specified in milliseconds.
.LE
.PP
The default route is only announced when actively peering with
at least one EGP neighbor.  Therefore, this stanza should only be
used when running EGP.
.PP
If no \*LHELLO\*O stanza is specified, HELLO routing is not
performed.
.PP
\f(HBUsing the gated Daemon with the EGP Protocol\fP
.PP
The following stanzas specify the information necessary for the
\*Lgated\*O  daemon to use EGP.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LEGP yes | no \*O"
This stanza allows the processing of EGP by the \*Lgated\*O daemon to
be turned on or off. The arguments are interpreted as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lyes\*O"
Performs all EGP operations.
.LI "\*Lno\*O"
Specifies that no EGP processing should be performed.
.IP
Note that EGP processing takes place by default.  If no \*LEGP\*O
stanza is specified, all EGP operations take place.
.LE
.LI "\*Lautonomous system\*O"
When the \*Lgated\*O daemon performs the EGP protocol, this stanza
must be used to
specify the independent (autonomous) system number. If this number
is not specified, the \*Lgated\*O daemon exits immediately with
an error message.
.LI "\*Legpmaxacquire\*O" \*VNumber\*O
When the \*Lgated\*O daemon performs the EGP protocol,
this stanza specifies the number of EGP
peers with whom the \*Lgated\*O daemon performs EGP. The \*VNumber\*O
variable must be a value greater than zero and less than or equal to
the number of EGP neighbors specified, or the \*Lgated\*O daemon
exits immediately. If this stanza is omitted, all EGP neighbors are
acquired.
.LE
.PP
When the \*Lgated\*O daemon performs the EGP protocol, this
stanza specifies with whom the \*Lgated\*O daemon is to perform
EGP.  The gateway specified by the\*V Gateway\*O variable can be
either a host address in Internet dotted-decimal notation or a symbolic
name from the\*L /etc/hosts \*Ofile.
.PP
Each EGP neighbor should have its own\*L egpneighbor\*O stanza
and is acquired in the order listed in the \*Lgated.conf\*O file.
.PP
The arguments to the \*Legpmaxacquire\*VNumber\*O stanza have
the following definitions:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lmetricin \*VDelay\*O"
Specifies the internal time delay
to be used as a metric for all of the routes learned from this neighbor.
The \*VDelay\*O variable should be specified as a time delay from
0 to 30,000. If this keyword and the \*Lvalidate\*O keyword are
not used, the internal metric used is the EGP distance multiplied
by 100.
.LI "\*Legpmetricout \*VEGPMetric\*O"
Sets the EGP distance used
for all networks advertised to this neighbor. The \*VEGPMetric\*O variable
should be specified as an EGP distance in the range of 0 to 255. If
this keyword is not specified, the internal time delay for each route
is converted to an EGP distance divided by 100, with distances
greater than 255 being set to 255.
.LI "\*LASin \*VAutonomousSystem\*O"
Verifies the autonomous
system number of this neighbor. If the \*VAutonomousSystem\*O number
specified in neighbor acquisition packets does not verify, an error
message is generated refusing the connection. If this keyword is not
specified, no verification of autonomous system numbers is done.
.LI "\*LASout \*VAutonomousSystem\*O"
Specifies the autonomous
system number in EGP packets sent to this neighbor. If an \*LASout\*O
stanza is not specified, the\*V AutonomousSystem\*O number specified
in the \*Lautonomoussystem \*Ostanza is used. This stanza is reserved
for a special situation that occurs between the ARPANET network and
National Science Foundation (NSF)
networks, and is not normally used.
.LI "\*Lnogendefault\*O"
Specifies that this neighbor should
not be considered for the internal generation of a default when the \*LRIP
gateway\*O or the\*L HELLO gateway \*Oargument is used. If not
specified, the internal default is generated when actively peering
with this neighbor.
.LI "\*Lacceptdefault\*O"
Indicates that the default route (network 0.0.0.0) should
be considered valid when received from this neighbor.
If this keyword is not specified, on reception of the default route,
the \*Lgated\*O daemon displays a warning message and ignores the
route.
.LI "\*Ldefaultout \*VEGPMetric\*O"
Specifies that the internally
generated default may be passed to this EGP neighbor at the specified
distance. The distance should be specified as an EGP distance from
0 to 255. A default route learned from another gateway is not propagated
to an EGP neighbor.
.IP
Without this keyword, no default route is passed through EGP.
The \*Lacceptdefault\*O keyword should not be specified when
the \*Ldefaultout\*O
keyword is used.  The EGP metric specified in the \*Legpmetricout\*O
keyword does not apply when the\*L defaultout\*O keyword is used.
The default route always uses the metric specified by the \*Ldefaultout\*O
keyword.
.LI "\*Lvalidate\*O"
Specifies that all networks received from this
EGP neighbor must be defined in a \*LvalidAS\*O stanza that also
specifies the autonomous system of this neighbor. Networks without
a \*LvalidAS\*O stanza are ignored after a warning message is printed.
.LI "\*Lintf \*VInterface\*O"
Defines the interface used to
send EGP packets to this neighbor. This keyword is only used when
there is no common net or subnet with this EGP neighbor. This keyword
is present for testing purposes and does not imply correct operation
when peering with an EGP neighbor that does not share a common net
or subnet.
.LI "\*Lsourcenet \*VNetwork\*O"
Specifies the source network
to be used in EGP poll packets sent to this neighbor. If this keyword
is not specified, the network (not subnet) of the interface used to
communicate with this neighbor is used. This keyword is present for
testing purposes and does not imply correct operation when used.
.LE
.SS Managing Routing Information
The following configuration file stanzas determine how the \*Lgated\*O
daemon handles both incoming and outgoing routing information.
.PP
\f(HBSpecifying RIP or HELLO Gateways to Which the gated Daemon Listens\fP
.PP
When the following stanzas are specified, the \*Lgated\*O daemon only listens
to RIP or HELLO information, respectively, from these RIP or HELLO
gateways:
.iS
trustedripgateways\*O \*VGateway\*O [\*VGateway\*O \*VGateway\*O \&...]
trustedhellogateways\*O \*VGateway\*O [\*VGateway\*O \*VGateway\*O \&...]
.iE
.PP
The \*VGateway\*O variable may be either an Internet address
in dotted-decimal notation, which avoids confusion, or a symbolic
name from\*L \*Othe \*L/etc/hosts\*O file.  Note that the propagation
of routing information is not restricted by this stanza.
.PP
\f(HBSpecifying Gateways for the gated Daemon to Send RIP or HELLO Information\fP
.PP
With the following stanzas, the \*Lgated\*O daemon sends RIP
or HELLO information directly to the gateways specified:
.iS
sourceripgateways\*O \*VGateway\*O [\*VGateway\*O \*VGateway\*O \&...]
sourcehellogateways\*O \*VGateway\*O [\*VGateway\*O \*VGateway\*O \&...]
.iE
.PP
If the \*Lpointopoint\*O argument is specified in the \*LRIP\*O
or \*LHELLO\*O stanzas defined earlier, the \*Lgated\*O daemon
sends only RIP or HELLO information to the specified gateways and
does \*Vnot\*O send out any information using the broadcast address.
.PP
If the \*Lpointopoint\*O argument is not specified in those
stanzas and the \*Lgated\*O daemon is supplying RIP or HELLO information,
the \*Lgated\*O daemon sends information to the specified gateways
and also broadcasts information using a broadcast address.
.PP
\f(HBTurning Routing Protocols On and Off by Interface\fP
.PP
The following stanzas turn routing protocols on and off by interface:
.iS
noripoutinterface\*O \*VInterfaceAddress\*O 
                    [\*VInterfaceAddressInterfaceAddress\*O \&...]
nohellooutinterface\*O \*VInterfaceAddress\*O 
                    [\*VInterfaceAddressInterfaceAddress\*O \&...]
noripfrominterface\*O \*VInterfaceAddress\*O 
                    [\*VInterfaceAddress\*VInterfaceAddress\*O \&...]
nohellofrominterface\*O \*VInterfaceAddress\*O 
                    [\*VInterfaceAddress\*VInterfaceAddress\*O \&...]
.iE
.PP
A \*Lnoripfrominterface\*O or \*Lnohellofrominterface\*O
stanza means that no RIP or HELLO information is accepted coming into
the listed interfaces from another gateway.
.PP
A \*Lnoripoutinterface\*O or \*Lnohellooutinterface\*O stanza
means that no RIP or HELLO knowledge is sent out of the listed interfaces.
The \*VInterfaceAddress\*O variable should be an Internet address
in dotted-decimal notation.
.PP
\f(HBStopping the gated Daemon from Timing Out Interfaces\fP
.PP
The following stanza stops the \*Lgated\*O daemon from timing
out the interfaces whose addresses are listed in Internet dotted-decimal
notation by the\*V InterfaceAddress\*O arguments. These interfaces
are always considered up and working.
.iS
passiveinterfaces\*O \*VInterfaceAddress\*O 
                    [\*VInterfaceAddressInterfaceAddress\&... \*O]
.iE
.PP
This stanza is used because the \*Lgated\*O daemon times out
an interface when no RIP, HELLO, or EGP packets are being received
on that particular interface, in order to dynamically determine if
an interface is functioning properly.
.PP
Packet Switch Node (PSN) interfaces send a RIP or HELLO packet to themselves to
determine if the interface is properly functioning, since the delay
between EGP packets may be longer than the interface time-out. Interfaces
that have timed out automatically have their routes reinstalled when
routing information is again received over the interface.
.PP
If the \*Lgated\*O daemon is not a RIP or HELLO supplier, no
interfaces are aged and the \*Lpassiveinterfaces\*O stanza automatically
applies to all interfaces.
.PP
\f(HBSpecifying an Interface Metric\fP
.PP
The following stanza allows the specification of an interface
metric for the listed interface:
.iS
interfacemetric\*O \*VInterfaceAddress\*O \*VMetric\*O
.iE
.PP
On systems that support interface metrics, this stanza overrides
the kernel's metric. On systems that do not support an interface metric,
this feature allows one to be specified.
.PP
The interface metric is added to the true metric of each route
that comes in with routing information from the listed interface.
The interface metric is also added to the true metric of any information
sent out through the listed interface. The metric of directly attached
interfaces is also set to the interface metric, and routing information
broadcast about directly attached networks is based on the interface metric
specified.
.PP
The \*Linterfacemetric\*O stanza is required for each interface
on which an interface metric is desired.
.PP
\f(HBProviding Hooks for Fallback Routing\fP
.PP
The following stanza provides hooks for fallback routing in the
\*Lgated\*O daemon:
.iS
reconstmetric\*O \*VInterfaceAddress\*O \*VMetric\*O
.iE
.PP
If this stanza is used, the metrics of the routes contained in
any RIP information coming into the listed interface are set to the
metric specified by the\*V Metric \*Ovariable. Metric reconstitution
should be used carefully, since it could be a major contributor in
the formation of routing loops. Any route that has a metric of infinity
is not reconstituted and is left as infinity.
.PP
Note that the \*Lreconstmetric\*O stanza should
be used with extreme caution.
.PP
The following stanza also provides hooks for fallback routing
for the \*Lgated \*Odaemon:
.iS
fixedmetric\*O \*VInterfaceAddress\*O \*VProtocol\*O \*Lrip\*O | \*Lhello\*O \*VMetric\*O
.iE
.PP
If this stanza is used, all routing information sent out by the
specified interface has a metric specified by the \*VMetric \*Ovariable.
For RIP, specify the metric as a RIP hop count from 0 to infinity.
For HELLO, specify the metric as a HELLO delay in milliseconds from
0 to infinity. Any route that has a metric of infinity is left as
infinity.
.PP
Note that fixed metrics should be used with extreme caution.
.PP
\f(HBSpecifying Information to Be Ignored\fP
.PP
The following stanza indicates that any information regarding
the \*VNetwork\*O variable that comes in by means of the specified
protocols\*V \*Oand from the specified interfaces is ignored:
.iS
donotlisten\*O \*VNetwork\*O \*Lintf\*O \*VAddress\*O [\*VAddress\&... \*O] \*Lproto\*O \*Lrip\*O | \*Lhello
donotlistenhost\*O \*VHost\*O \*Lintf\*O \*VAddress\*O [\*VAddress\&... \*O] \*Lproto\*O \*Lrip\*O | \*Lhello\*O
.iE
.PP
The \*Ldonotlisten\*O stanza contains the following information:
the keyword \*Ldonotlisten\*O, followed by a network number specified
by the \*VNetwork\*O variable, which should be in dotted-decimal
notation, followed by the\*L intf \*Okeyword.  Next is a list of
interfaces in dotted-decimal notation, then the\*L proto \*Okeyword,
followed by the\*L rip\*O or \*Lhello \*Okeyword.
.PP
The \*Lall \*Okeyword can be used after the \*Lintf\*O keyword
to specify all interfaces on the system. For example:
.iS
donotlisten 10.0.0.0 intf 128.84.253.200 proto rip
.iE
.PP
means that any RIP information about network \*L10.0.0.0\*O
coming in by interface \*L128.84.253.200\*O will be ignored.
One stanza is required for each network on which this restriction
is desired.  In addition:
.iS
donotlisten 26.0.0.0 intf all proto rip hello
.iE
.PP
means that any RIP and HELLO information about network \*L26.0.0.0\*O
coming in through any interface is ignored.
.PP
The \*Ldonotlistenhost\*O stanza is defined in the same way,
except that a host address is provided instead of a network address.
Restrictions on routing updates are applied to the specified host
route learned through the specified routing or protocols.
.PP
\f(HBSpecifying Network or Host Information to Which the gated Daemon Listens\fP
.PP
The following stanzas indicate that the \*Lgated\*O daemon
should listen to specified protocols and gateways:
.iS
listen\*O \*VNetwork\*O \*Lgateway\*O \*VAddress\*O [\*VAddress\&... \*O] \*Lproto\*O \*Lrip\*O | \*Lhello
listenhost\*O \*VHost\*O \*Lgateway\*O \*VAddress\*O [\*VAddress\&... \*O] \*Lproto\*O \*Lrip\*O | \*Lhello\*O
.iE
.PP
The \*Llisten\*O and \*Llistenhost\*O stanzas specify to
listen only to information about a network or host on the specified
protocol or protocols and from the listed gateways.
.PP
These stanzas read as follows: the \*Llisten\*O or\*L listenhost\*O
keyword is followed by a network or host address, respectively,
in dotted-decimal notation.  Next is the \*Lgateway\*O keyword
with a list of gateways in dotted-decimal notation, and then the \*Lproto\*O
keyword followed by\*L \*Othe \*Lrip\*O or \*Lhello\*O
keyword.  For example:
.iS
listen 128.84.0.0 gateway 128.84.253.3 proto hello\*O
.iE
.PP
indicates that any HELLO information about network \*L128.84\*O
that comes in through gateway \*L128.84.253.3\*O is accepted.
Any other information about network \*L128.84\*O from any other
gateway is rejected.  One stanza is needed for each net to be restricted.
.PP
Also, the stanza:
.iS
listenhost 26.0.0.15 gateway 128.84.253.3 proto rip\*O
.iE
.PP
means that any information about host \*L26.0.0.15\*O must
come through RIP from gateway \*L128.84.253.3\*O. All other information
regarding this host is ignored.
.PP
\f(HBRestricting Announcements of Networks and Hosts\fP
.PP
The following stanzas allow restriction of the networks and hosts
that are announced and the protocols that announce them:
.iS
announce\*O \*VNetwork\*O \*VInterfaceAddress\*O [\*VAddress\&... \*O]
                         \*VProtocol\*O \*VType\*O [\*VEGPMetric\*O]
announcehost\*O \*VHost\*O \*VInterfaceAddress\*O \*VProtocol\*O
                         \*VType\*O [\*VEGPMetric\*O]
noannounce\*O \*VNetwork\*O \*VInterfaceAddress\*O [\*VAddress\ \&.\ .\ .\ \*O]
                         \*VProtocol\*O \*VType\*O [\*VEGPMetric\*O]
noannouncehost\*O \*VHost\*O \*VInterfaceAddress\*O \*VProtocol\*O
                         \*VType\*O [\*VEGPMetric\*O]
.iE
.PP
The \*Lannounce{host}\*O and \*Lnoannounce{host}\*O stanzas cannot be
used together on the same interface. With
the \*Lannounce{host}\*O stanza, the \*Lgated\*O daemon
only announces the networks or hosts that have an associated\*L announce\*O
or \*Lannouncehost\*O stanza with the appropriate protocol.
.PP
With the \*Lnoannounce{host}\*O stanza, the \*Lgated\*O
daemon announces everything, except those networks or hosts that
have an associated \*Lnoannounce\*O or \*Lnoannouncehost\*O
stanza. These stanzas provide a choice of announcing only what is
on the announce list or everything, except those networks on the
\*Lnoannounce\*O list on an individual basis.
.PP
The arguments are the same as in the \*Ldonotlisten\*O stanza,
except that \*Legp\*O may be specified in the \*VProto\*O field.
The \*VType\*O can be \*Lrip\*O, \*Lhello\*O,\*L egp\*O,
or any combination of the three.
When \*Legp\*O is specified in the \*VProto\*O field,
an EGP metric must be specified.  This is the metric at which the
\*Lgated \*Odaemon announces the listed network through EGP.
.PP
\*ONote that these are not static route entries.  These restrictions
only apply if the network or host is learned through one of the routing
protocols.  If a restricted network suddenly becomes unreachable and
goes away, announcement of this network stops until it is learned again.
.PP
Only one \*Lannounce{host}\*O or \*Lnoannounce{host}\*O stanza may
be specified for each network or host.  A network
or host cannot, for instance, be announced through HELLO for one interface
and through RIP for another.
.PP
Some sample \*Lannounce\*O stanzas might include:
.oS
announce 128.84 intf all proto rip hello egp egpmetric 0
announce 10.0.0.0 intf all proto rip
announce 0.0.0.0 intf 128.84.253.200 proto rip
announce 35.0.0.0 intf all proto rip egp egpmetric 3
.oE
.PP
With only these four \*Lannounce\*O stanzas in the configuration
file, the \*Lgated\*O process only announces these four networks.
Network \*L.84.0.0\*O is announced through RIP and HELLO to
all interfaces and through EGP with a metric of 0 (zero).
Network \*L.0.0.0\*O is announced through RIP to all interfaces.
.PP
Network \*L0.0.0.0\*O (default) is announced by RIP through interface \*L128.84.253.200\*O
only.  Network \*L35.0.0.0\*O is
announced through RIP to all interfaces and announced through EGP
with a metric of 3. These are the only networks that are broadcast
by this gateway.
.PP
Once the first \*Lannounce\*O stanza is specified, only the
networks with \*Lannounce\*O stanzas are broadcast, including local
subnetworks.  Once an \*Lannounce\*O{\*Lhost\*O} or\*L
noannounce\*O{\*Lhost\*O}
stanza has an \*Lall\*O keyword specified after
an \*Lintf\*O keyword, that stanza is applied globally and the
option of having individual interface restrictions is lost.
.PP
If no routing announcement restrictions are desired, \*Lannounce\*O
stanzas should not be used.  All information learned is then propagated
out.  That announcement has no affect on the information to which
the \*Lgated \*Odaemon listens.
.PP
Any network that does not have an\*L announce\*O stanza is
still added to the kernel routing tables, but it is not announced
through any of the routing protocols.  To stop networks from being
added to the kernel, the\*L donotlisten\*O stanza may be used.
.PP
As another example:
.iS
announce 128.84 intf 128.59.2.1 proto rip
noannounce 128.84 intf 128.59.1.1 proto rip
.iE
.PP
indicates that on interface \*L128.59.2.1\*O, only information
about network \*L128.84.0.0\*O is announced through RIP, but on
interface \*L128.59.1.1\*O, all information is announced, except
\*L128.84.0.0\*O through RIP.
.PP
The stanzas:
.iS
noannounce 128.84 intf all proto rip hello egp egpmetric 0
noannounce 10.0.0.0 intf all proto hello
.iE
.PP
mean that except for the two specified networks, all networks are
propagated.  Specifically, network \*L128.84.0.0\*O is not announced
on any interface through any protocols.  Knowledge of network \*L128.84.0.0\*O
is not sent anywhere.  Network \*L10.0.0.0\*O is not
announced through HELLO to any interface.
.PP
The second stanza also implies that network \*L10.0.0.0\*O
is announced to every interface through RIP.  This network is also broadcast
through EGP with the metric specified in the \*Ldefaultegpmetric\*O
stanza.
.PP
\f(HBDefining a Default EGP Metric\fP
.PP
The following stanza defines a default EGP metric to use when there are
no routing restrictions:
.iS
defaultegpmetric\*O \*VNumber\*O
.iE
Without routing restrictions, the \*Lgated\*O daemon
announces all networks learned through HELLO or RIP through EGP with
this specified default EGP metric.  If this stanza is not used, the
default EGP metric is set to 255, which causes any EGP advertised
route of this nature to be ignored.
.PP
When there are no routing restrictions, any network with a direct
interface is announced through EGP with a metric of 0 (zero).  Note that
this does not include subnetworks, but only the nonsubnetworked network.
.PP
\f(HBDefining a Default Gateway\fP
.PP
The following stanza defines a default gateway, which is installed
in the kernel routing tables during initialization and reinstalled
whenever information about the default route is lost:
.br
.ne 9P
.iS
defaultgateway\*O \*VGateway\*O [\*VMetric\*O] \*VProtocol\*O
                                   [\*Lactive\*O | \*Lpassive\*O]
.iE
.PP
This route is installed with a time delay equivalent to a RIP
metric of 15, unless another metric is specified with the\*V Metric\*O
variable.
.PP
If the \*LRIP gateway\*O or \*LHELLO gateway\*O is in use, this
default route is deleted.
.PP
An \*Lactive\*O default route is overridden by any other default
route learned through another routing protocol.  A\*L passive\*O
default route is only overridden by a default route with a lower metric.
In addition, an \*Lactive\*O default route is not propagated in
routing updates, while a \*Lpassive\*O default route is propagated.
.PP
The gateway specified by the \*VGateway\*O variable should
be an address in Internet dotted-decimal notation.  The \*VMetric\*O
variable is optional and should be a time delay from 0 to 30,000.
If a \*VMetric\*O is not specified, a time delay equivalent to
a RIP metric of 15 is used.
.PP
The \*VProtocol\*O variable should be either \*Lrip\*O, \*Legp\*O,
or \*Lhello\*O.  The \*VProtocol\*O variable initializes
the protocol by which the route was learned. In this case the \*VProtocol\*O
variable is unused but remains for consistency.
.PP
\f(HBInstalling a Static Route\fP
.PP
The following stanzas install static routes:
.iS
net\*O \*VNetworkAddress\*O \*Lgateway\*O \*VAddress\*O \*Lmetric\*O \*VHopCount\*O \*Lrip\*O | \*Legp\*O | \*Lhello
host\*O \*VHostAddress\*O \*Lgateway\*O \*VAddress\*O \*Lmetric\*VHopCount\*O \*Lrip\*O | \*Legp\*O | \*Lhello\*O
.iE
.PP
The \*Lnet\*O and \*Lhost\*O stanzas install a static route
to the network specified by the \*VNetworkAddress\*O variable or
the host specified by the \*VHostAddress\*O variable. The route is through a
gateway specified by the \*VAddress\*O variable at a metric specified
by the \*VHopCount\*O variable learned through RIP, HELLO, or EGP.
Again, dotted-decimal notation should be used for the addresses.
These routes are installed in the kernel's routing table and are never
affected by any other gateway's RIP or HELLO announcements.  The protocol
by which they were learned is important if the route is to be announced
through EGP.
.PP
If the protocol is RIP or HELLO and there are no routing restrictions,
then this route is announced by EGP with a metric of \*Ldefaultegpmetric\*O\&.
If the protocol keyword is \*Legp\*O and there are no routing
restrictions, then this route is announced by EGP with a metric specified
by the \*VHopCount \*Ovariable.
.PP
\f(HBRestricting EGP Announcements\fP
.PP
The following stanza provides a \*Vsoft restriction\*O to the \*Lgated\*O
daemon:
.iS
egpnetsreachable\*O \*VNetwork\*O [\*VNetwork\*O \*VNetwork\ \&.\ .\ .\ \*O]
.iE
.PP
It cannot be used when the \*Lannounce\*O or \*Lnoannounce\*O
stanzas are used.  With no restrictions, the \*Lgated\*O daemon
announces all routes learned from RIP and HELLO through EGP.  The
\*Legpnetsreachable\*O stanza restricts EGP announcement to those networks
listed in the stanza.
.PP
The metric used for routes learned through HELLO and RIP  is the
value given in the \*Ldefaultegpmetric\*O stanza.  If this stanza
does not specify a value, the value is set to 255.  With the \*Legpnetsreachable\*O
stanza, unique EGP metrics cannot be set for each network.
The \*Ldefaultegpmetric\*O is used for all networks, except those
that are directly connected, which use a metric of 0 (zero).
.PP
\f(HBSpecifying Invalid Networks\fP
.PP
The following stanza appends to the \*Lgated\*O daemon's list
of martian networks, which are those that are known to be invalid
and should be ignored:
.iS
martiannets\*O \*VNetwork\*O [\*VNetwork\*O \*VNetwork\ .\ \&.\ .\ \*O]
.iE
.PP
When the \*Lgated\*O daemon receives information about one
of these networks through any means, it immediately ignores it.  If
\*Lexternal\*O tracing is enabled, a message is printed to the trace
log.  Multiple occurrences of the \*Lmartiannets\*O stanza accumulate.
.PP
The initial list of martian networks provided by the \*Lgated\*O
daemon contains the following networks:  127.0.0.0, 128.0.0.0,
191.253.0.0, 192.0.0.0, 223.255.255.0, and 224.0.0.0.
.SS Managing Autonomous System Routing
In the internal routing tables, the \*Lgated\*O daemon maintains
the autonomous system number from which each route was learned. Independent
(autonomous) systems are used only when an exterior routing protocol
is in use, in this case EGP.
.PP
Routes are tagged with the autonomous system number of the EGP
peer from which they were learned.  Routes learned through the interior
routing protocols, RIP and HELLO, are
tagged with the autonomous system number specified in the \*Lautonomoussystem\*O
stanza of the \*Lgated.conf\*O file.
.PP
The \*Lgated\*O server does not normally
propagate routes learned from exterior routing protocols to interior
routing protocols, since some gateways do not have adequate validation
of routing information they receive.  Some of the following stanzas
allow exterior routes to be propagated through interior protocols.
Therefore, it is imperative that utmost care be taken when allowing
the propagation of exterior routes.
.PP
The following stanzas provide limited control over routing based
on autonomous system numbers.
.PP
\f(HBValidating Networks from an Independent (Autonomous) System\fP
.PP
The following stanza is used for validation of networks from a
certain independent system:
.iS
validAS\*O \*VNetwork\*O \*LAS\*O \*VSystem\*O \*Lmetric\*O \*VNumber\*O
.iE
.PP
When an EGP update is received from a neighbor that has the \*Lvalidate\*O
keyword specified in the associated \*Legpneighbor\*O stanza,
a search is made for a \*LvalidAS\*O stanza that defines the network
and the autonomous system number of the EGP neighbor.
.PP
If the appropriate \*LvalidAS\*O stanza is located, the network
is considered for addition to the routing table with the specified
metric.  If a \*LvalidAS\*O stanza is not located, a warning message
is printed and the network is ignored.
.PP
A network may be specified in several \*LvalidAS\*O stanzas
as being associated with several different autonomous systems.
.PP
\f(HBControlling Exchange of Routing Information Between Autonomous Systems\fP
.PP
The following stanzas control routing information exchange:
.iS
announcetoAS\*O \*VAutonomousSystem1\*O \*LASlist\*O \*VAutonomousSystem2\*O
                                     [\*VAutonomousSystem3\&... \*O]
noannouncetoAS\*O \*VAutonomousSystem1\*O \*LASlist\*O \*VAutonomousSystem2\*O
                                     [\*VAutonomousSystem3\&... \*O]
.iE
.PP
The \*LannouncetoAS\*O and \*LnoannouncetoAS\*O stanzas
control the exchange of routing information between different autonomous
(independent) systems.  Normally, the \*Lgated\*O daemon does not
propagate routing information between independent systems.
.PP
The exception to this is that routes learned from the \*Lgated\*O
daemon's own independent system through RIP and HELLO are propagated
through EGP. These stanzas allow information learned through EGP from
one autonomous system to be propagated through EGP to another autonomous
system or through RIP and HELLO to the \*Lgated\*O daemon's own
autonomous system.
.PP
If the \*LannouncetoAS\*O stanza is specified, information
learned through EGP from autonomous systems \*VAS1\*O,\*V AS2\*O, \*VAS3\*O,
and so on, is propagated to autonomous system \*VAS0\*O.
If the \*Lgated\*O daemon's own autonomous system, as specified
in the \*Lautonomoussystem \*Ostanza, is specified as \*VAS0\*O,
this information is propagated through
RIP and HELLO.  Routing information from autonomous systems
not specified in the \*LASlist\*O are not propagated to autonomous
system \*VAS0\*O.
.PP
If the \*LnoannouncetoAS\*O stanza is specified, information
learned through EGP from all autonomous systems, except \*VAS1\*O,\*V
AS2\*O, \*VAS3\*O, and so on, is propagated to autonomous system \*VAS0\*O\&.
If the \*Lgated\*O daemon's own autonomous system
is specified as \*VAS0\*O, this information is not propagated through
RIP and HELLO.
.PP
Only one \*LannouncetoAS\*O or \*LnoannounceAS\*O stanza
may be specified for each target autonomous system.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
An example \*Lgated.conf\*O file for a
\*Lgated\*O server that performs
only EGP routing might contain the following entries.
The following three lines specify which protocol will be running.
RIP and HELLO do not run.  EGP does run.
.oS
RIP     no
HELLO   no
EGP     yes
#
.oE
.PP
The \*Ltraceflags\*O stanza tells what level of trace output
is desired:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Linternal\*O"
Logs all internal error and interior routing errors.
.LI "\*Lexternal\*O"
Logs all external errors due to EGP, exterior routing
errors, and EGP state changes.
.LI "\*Lroute\*O"
Logs all routing changes.
.LI "\*Legp\*O"
Traces all EGP packets sent and received.
.LI "\*Lupdate\*O"
Logs all routing updates.
.LE
.PP
The autonomous system stanza specifies the autonomous system number.
This must be specified if running EGP.
.iS
traceflags      internal external route egp update
autonomoussystem        178
.iE
.PP
The following \*Legpneighbor\*O stanza specifies with whom
you are going to perform EGP.  This line says that your EGP neighbor
is the host \*L192.100.9.1\*O.
The \*Ldefaultegpmetric\*O stanza specifies that when there
are no routing restrictions, the default EGP metric is \*L132\*O.
.oS
egpneighbor             192.100.9.1
defaultegpmetric        132
#
.oE
.PP
The next line indicates that for network \*L192.200.9\*O the
gateway is \*L192.101.9.3\*O with a hop count of 50
when using RIP protocol.  This is a static route.
.PP
The \*Legpnetsreachable\*O stanza restricts EGP announcements
to those networks listed:
.oS
net 192.200.9 gateway 192.101.9.3 metric 50 rip
egpnetsreachable 192.200.9 192.101.9
.oE
.PP
The following lists the static routes, showing the host
address, gateway address, hop count, and protocol used:
.oS
# Static routes
host 129.140.46.1       gateway 192.100.9.1    metric 5 rip
host 192.102.9.2        gateway 192.100.9.1    metric 5 rip
host 192.104.9.2        gateway 192.100.9.1    metric 5 rip
host 149.140.3.12       gateway 192.100.9.1    metric 5 rip
host 129.140.3.12       gateway 192.100.9.1    metric 5 rip
host 129.140.3.13       gateway 192.100.9.1    metric 5 rip
host 129.140.3.14       gateway 192.100.9.1    metric 5 rip
host 192.3.3.54         gateway 192.101.9.3    metric 5 rip
.oE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Daemons: \*Lgated\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
