.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: gateways.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/02/04 10:51:15 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH gateways 4
.SH NAME
\*Lgateways\*O \- Specifies Internet routing information to the \*Lrouted\*O daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/etc/gateways
.sE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
The \*L/etc/gateways\*O file identifies gateways for the
\*Lrouted\*O daemon.
Ordinarily, the\*L routed\*O daemon queries the network and builds
routing tables.  The \*Lrouted\*O daemon builds the tables from
routing information transmitted by other hosts directly connected
to the network. However, there may be gateways that this command cannot
identify through its queries.  These unidentified gateways are known
as distant gateways. Such gateways should be identified in the 
\*L/etc/gateways\*O file, which\*L \*Othe \*Lrouted\*O daemon reads when it
starts.
.PP 
The general format of an file entry in the \*L/etc/gateways\*O file is:
.iS
\*VDestination Name1 \*Lgateway\*O \*VName2\*O \*Lmetric\*O \*VValue Type\*O
.iE
.PP 
The following is a brief description of each element in an \*L/etc/gateways\*O
file entry:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*VDestination\*O"
A keyword that indicates whether the route
is to a network or to a specific host. The two possible keywords 
are \*Lnet\*O and\*L host\*O.
.LI "\*VName1\*O"
The name associated with \*VDestination\*O.
\*VName1\*O can be either a symbolic name (as used
in the \*L/etc/hosts\*O or \*L/etc/networks\*O file)
or an Internet address specified in dotted-decimal format.
.LI "\*Lgateway\*O"
An indicator that the following string identifies
the gateway host.
.LI "\*VName2\*O"
The name or address of the gateway host to which
messages should be forwarded.
.LI "\*Lmetric\*O"
An indicator that the next string represents the
hop count to the destination host or network.
.LI "\*VValue\*O"
The hop count, or number of gateways, from the local
network to the destination network.
.LI "\*VType\*O"
A keyword that indicates whether the gateway should
be treated as active, passive, or external. The three possible keywords
are as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lactive\*O"
An active gateway is treated like a network interface.
That is, it is expected to exchange RIP (Routing Information
Protocol) routing information. Information
about it is maintained in the internal routing tables as long as it
is active and is included in any routing information that is transmitted
through RIP. If it does not respond for a period of time, the route
associated with it is deleted from the internal routing tables.
.LI "\*Lpassive\*O"
A passive gateway is not expected to exchange
RIP routing information. Information about it is maintained in the
routing tables indefinitely and is included in any routing information
that is transmitted through RIP.
.LI "\*Lexternal\*O"
An external gateway is identified to inform
the \*Lrouted\*O daemon that another routing process will install
such a route and that alternative routes to that destination should
not be installed. Information about external gateways is not maintained
in the internal routing tables and is not transmitted through RIP.
.LE  
.sp 0.4v
Note that these routes must be to networks.
.LE 
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.AL
.LI
To specify a route to a network through a gateway
host with an entry in the \*Lgateways\*O file, enter:
.iS
net net2 gateway host4 metric 4 passive
.iE
.PP
This example specifies a route to a network, \*Lnet2\*O, through
the \*Lgateway host4\*O. The hop count \*Lmetric\*O to \*Lnet2\*O is \*L4\*O,
and the gateway is treated as \*Lpassive\*O.
.LI
To specify a route to a host through a gateway
host with an entry in the \*Lgateways\*O file, enter:
.iS
host host2 gateway host4 metric 4 passive
.iE
.PP
This example specifies a route to a host, \*Lhost2\*O, through
the \*Lgateway host4\*O. The hop count \*Lmetric\*O to \*Lhost2\*O
is \*L4\*O, and the gateway is treated as \*Lpassive\*O.
.LI
To specify a route to a host through an active
Internet gateway with an entry in the \*Lgateways\*O file, enter:
.iS
host host10 gateway 192.100.11.5 metric 9 active
.iE
.PP
This example specifies a route to a specific host, \*Lhost10\*O,
through the \*Lgateway 192.100.11.5\*O. The hop count
\*Lmetric\*O
to \*Lhost10\*O is 9 and the gateway is treated as \*Lactive\*O.
.LI
To specify a route to a host through a passive
Internet gateway with an entry in the \*Lgateways\*O file, enter:
.iS
host host10 gateway 192.100.11.5 metric 9 passive
.iE
.PP
This example specifies a route to a specific host, \*Lhost10\*O,
through the \*Lgateway 192.100.11.5\*O.  The hop \*Lmetric\*O count to
\*Lhost10\*O is \*L9\*O
and the \*Lgateway\*O is treated as \*Lpassive\*O.
.LI
To specify a route to a network through an external
gateway, enter a line in the following format:
.iS
net net5 gateway host7 metric 11 external
.iE
.PP
This example specifies a route to a network, \*Lnet5\*O, through
the gateway \*Lhost7\*O. The hop count \*Lmetric\*O to \*Lnet5\*O
is \*L11\*O and the gateway is treated as \*Lexternal\*O (that
is, it is not advertised through RIP, but is advertised through an
unspecified routing protocol).
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Daemons: \*Lrouted\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
