.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\" 
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" 
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: gettydefs.4,v $ $Revision: 1.1.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/16 17:48:57 $
.\" 
.\" Last edits by Mike Larson at larz@wasted
.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding.
.\" 
.TH gettydefs 4
.PP
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgettydefs\*O \- Terminal attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "gettydefs file"
.PP
.sS
\*L/etc/gettydefs\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lgettydefs\*O file supplies the \*Lgetty\*O
command with information about various terminal attributes,
such as the default initialization and the login message.
The \*Lgettydefs\*O file contains single line entries that are
separated by blank lines.   Each entry
contains five fields; each field is separated by a number sign (#).
You can indicate comments in the file by putting a number sign 
(#) at the beginning of a line. 
.PP
When the \*Lgetty\*O command 
is invoked, it scans the \*Lgettydefs\*O file for the
first entry with a matching identifier field (see below).
If the \*Lgettydefs\*O file cannot be opened, internal default settings 
are used.   If a match is found,
then the matching entry is parsed, and the terminal attributes are set 
based on the fields specified in the entry.  If a match is not
found, the first \*Lgettydefs\*O file entry is used; therefore the 
first entry in
\*Lgettydefs\*O must be the default entry.  The maximum length of each
entry is 255 characters.
.PP
The format of each entry is as follows:
.PP
.iS
Identifier#Iflag#Fflag#Message#Next Identifier
.iE
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*LIdentifier\*O"
Identifies an entry.  The \*Lgetty\*O command uses an
identifier as an argument and searches for the first entry with a
matching identifier field. The identifier must be unique.
.LI "\*LIflag\*O"
Specifies the initial terminal flags that the \*Lgetty\*O command 
uses to set the terminal
attributes after a line has been successfully opened.  There are four
categories for the terminal
attributes.  The input flags control the basic input attributes.  The output
flags control how the terminal system processes output.  The control flags
describe how the hardware controls the terminal.  The local flags control
various terminal functions.  Refer to termios(4) for the description of the
possible settings on a terminal port.  You can specify the symbol SANE to
select default settings. The default settings set the input flags to BRKINT,
IGNPAR, ICRNL and IXON; the output flags to OPOST and ONLCR; the
control flags
to CS8, and CREAD; and the local flags to ISIG, ICANON, IEXTEN, ECHO,
ECHOK.
.LI "\*LFflag\*O"
Specifies the final terminal flags used by the \*Lgetty\*O command. 
These flags are set
after the \*Lgetty\*O command 
receives a valid login name from the standard input.
The output flags and the control flags are set to the terminal attributes
specified in \*LFflag\*O.
The input flags and local flags are appended to the initial flags
specified in the \*LIflag\*O field.
.LI "\*LMessage\*O"
Specifies the login message.  The login message can include the character
sequence %h to obtain the host name and %t to obtain the terminal name.
.LI "\*LNext Identifier\*O"
Specifies that if the speed specified in the current entry was
incorrect, the entry corresponding to this field should be used.
The \*Lgetty\*O command obtains the new entry from this field, and the scan
process is repeated.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following is an example of an entry in the \*Lgettydefs\*O file
containing settings for an 8 bit, no parity, 9600 baud, locally
connected terminal line:
.oS
9600# B9600 HUPCL CS8 CLOCAL # B9600 SANE IXANY TAB3 CLOCAL #login: #9600
.oE
The following is an example of an entry in the \*Lgettydefs\*O file
containing settings for a 8 bit, no parity, 2400 baud, dial in modem
line:
.oS
M2400# B2400 HUPCL CS8 # B2400 SANE IXANY TAB3 HUPCL #login: #M1200
.oE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/include/sys/termios.h\*O"
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/getty\*O"
Specifies the command that initializes and controls terminal lines.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lgetty\*O(8)
.PP
Functions:  \*Lkill\*O(2)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
.EQ
delim off
.EN
