.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: group.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/23 20:18:27 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
.\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail 
.\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\" @(#)group.5	6.1 (Berkeley) 5/15/85
.\" 
.TH group 4
.SH NAME
\*Lgroup\*O \- Group file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "group database"
.iX "databases" "group"
The
\*L/etc/group\*O
database
contains the
following information for each group:
.\"from TP 4"  
.\" bullet list under TP ! " 
.ML
.LI
Group name
.\"from TP 4"  
.\" bullet list under TP ! " 
.LI
Encrypted password
.\"from TP 4"  
.\" bullet list under TP ! " 
.LI
Numerical group ID
.\"from TP 4"  
.\" bullet list under TP ! " 
.LI
A comma-separated list of all users allowed in the group
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.sp
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.RS 5
Do not put any spaces between a comma and a username that
follows; otherwise, the username following the comma will not be made a
part of the desired group.
.sp 6p
.RE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LE
.PP
The
\*L/etc/group\*O
file is an ASCII file,
with the fields separated
by colons.
Each group is separated from the next by a new line.
If the password field is null, no password is demanded.
.PP
Because of the encrypted
passwords, it can and does have general read
permission and can be used, for example,
to map numerical group IDs to names.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Increasing the number of groups that a user is in beyond 16 can affect
services that use ONC RPC.  This version of ONC RPC
supports up to 32 groups. This is for compatibility with ULTRIX
V4.2 systems and beyond. Many OSF and ONC
vendors can only support user membership of up to 16 groups. In addition,
versions of ULTRIX
earlier than V4.2, as well as some OSF vendors, support only 8 groups
over ONC RPC.
.PP
Users who increase their group membership beyond 8 or 16 groups will not be
able to NFS mount file systems from servers that only support 8 or 16 groups
over NFS. In addition, if root group membership is increased beyond 8 or 16,
the NIS service will not work in a mixed NIS server environment where the
servers only 8 or 16 groups.
.\" End Digital-specific information.
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/etc/group\*O
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lsetgroups\*O(2),
\*Linitgroups\*O(3)
.\" Digital-specific change - expect the crypt(3) manpage was pulled from
.\" inventory because of export restrictions. Also added \*Lgroups\*O(1) ref.
.\" change per dms
.\" \*Lcrypt\*O(3)
.PP
Commands:
\*Lpasswd\*O(1),
\*Lgroups\*O(1)
.PP
Files:
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Changed 5 to 4 per QAR 10989
\*Lpasswd\*O(4)
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.iX "group database"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
