.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: hosts.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/10 14:50:27 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH hosts 4
.SH NAME
\*Lhosts\*O \- The host name data base
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/etc/hosts\*O
.sE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "host name database"
The \*Lhosts\*O file contains information regarding the known
hosts on the network.  For each host a single line should be
present with the following information:
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\" The following example has the wrong syntax.
.\".iS
.\"\*V official_host_name Internet_address aliases\*O
.\".iE
.iS
\*V IP_address canonical_hostname aliases\*O
.iE
.\"End Digital correction
.PP
Items are separated by any number of blanks and/or tab characters.
The # (number sign) indicates the beginning of a comment; characters up to the
end of the line are not interpreted by routines which search the file.
.PP
When using the name server \*Lnamed\*O(8), this file provides a
backup when the name server is not running.  For the name
server, it is suggested that only a few addresses be
included in this file.  These include  address for the local
interfaces that \*Lifconfig\*O(8) needs at boot time and a few
machines on the local network.
.PP
This file may be created from the official host data base
maintained at the Network Information Control Center (NIC),
though local changes may be required to bring it up to date
regarding unofficial aliases and/or unknown hosts.  As the
data base maintained at NIC is incomplete, use of the name
server is recommend for sites on the DARPA Internet.
.PP
Network addresses are specified in the conventional \*L\&.\*O
notation using the \*Linet_addr()\*O routine from the Internet
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\" changed inet(3) to inet_addr(3)
address manipulation library, \*Linet_addr(3)\*O.  Host names may
.\"End Digital correction.
contain any printable character other than a field delimiter,
newline, or comment character.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands: \*Lifconfig\*O(8), \*Lnamed\*O(8)
.PP
Functions: \*Lgethostbyname\*O(3)
.\" .PP
.\" Name Server Operations Guide for BIND
.EQ
delim off
.EN
