.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: hosts.equiv.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/16 17:55:17 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH hosts.equiv 4
.SH NAME
\*Lhosts.equiv\*O \- A file containing the names of remote systems and users that can execute commands on the local system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.iX "hosts.equiv file"
.iX "files" "hosts.equiv"
.iX "systems" "remote"
.PP
.sS
\*L/etc/hosts.equiv\*O
.sE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The \*L/etc/hosts.equiv\*O file and the \*L.rhosts\*O file in
a user's home directory contain the names of remote hosts
and users that are equivalent to the local host
or user.  An equivalent host or user is allowed to
access a local nonsuperuser account with the
\*Lrsh\*O command or \*Lrcp\*O command, or to
log in to such an account without having to supply a password.
.PP
The \*L/etc/hosts.equiv\*O file specifies
equivalence for an entire system, while a user's \*L.rhosts\*O file specifies
equivalence between that user and remote users.
The \*L.rhosts\*O file must be owned by the user in
whose home directory the file is located, or by the
superuser.  It cannot be a symbolic link.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.PP
Each line, or entry, in \*Lhosts.equiv\*O or \*L.rhosts\*O
may consist of the following:
.ML
.LI
A blank line.
.LI
A comment (begins with a #).
.LI
.\" Added NIS netgroup information per Ron Menner
A host name (a string of any printable characters except
newline, #, or white space). In addition, an NIS netgroup can be specified in
place of the host name.
.LI
A host name followed by white space and a user name. In addition, an NIS netgroup
can be specified in place of the host name, user name, or both.
.LI
A single plus (+) character. This means any host and user.
.LI
The keyword \*LNO_PLUS\*O. This keyword disallows the use of the plus character
(+) to match any host or user on a system-wide basis. By default, the line
containing this keyword is a comment. Remove the comment character to
disallow the use of the plus character.
.LE
.PP
Entries in the \*Lhosts.equiv\*O file are either positive or negative. Positive
entries allow access; negative entries deny access. The following entries are
positive:
.oS
\*Vhost name\*O
\*Vuser name\*O
+@\*Vnetgroup\*O
.oE
.PP
In addition, the plus sign (+) can be used in place of the host name or
user name. In place of the host name, it means any remote host. In place of the
user name, it means any user.
.PP
The following entries are negative:
.oS
\-\*Vhost name\*O
\-\*Vuser name\*O
\-@\*Vnetgroup\*O
.oE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.\" Removed per Ron Menner - 10/13/93
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\".PP
.\".ce 1
.\"\f(HBNote\fP
.\".sp 6p
.\".rS 5
.\"To minimize security risks, the use of a single plus sign (+) is not supported.
.\".sp 6p
.\".rE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP
To be allowed access or denied access, a user's remote host name
and user name must match an entry in
\*Lhosts.equiv\*O or \*L.rhosts\*O.
\*Lhosts.equiv\*O is searched first; if a match is found, the search ends.
Therefore, the order in which the positive and negative entries appear is
important. If a match is not found, \*L.rhosts\*O is searched if it exists in
the user's home directory.
.PP
A host name or user name can match an entry in
\*Lhosts.equiv\*O or \*L.rhosts\*O in one of the following
ways:
.ML
.LI
The official host name (not an alias) of the
remote host matches a host name in
\*Lhosts.equiv\*O or \*L.rhosts\*O.
.LI
The remote user name matches a user name in
\*Lhosts.equiv\*O or \*L.rhosts\*O.
.LI
If the remote user name does not match a user name in
\*Lhosts.equiv\*O or \*L.rhosts\*O, the remote
user name matches the local user name.
.LE
.\".PP 
.\"To explicitly exclude particular host names or user names,
.\"make an entry like the following in \*Lhosts.equiv\*O or \*L.rhosts\*O:
.\".iS
.\"\*Vname\*O
.\".iE
.\".PP 
.\"where \*Vname\*O is a host name or user name.  If the remote
.\"host name matches \*Vname\*O, access is denied, regardless of
.\"the user name.  If the remote user name matches \*Vname\*O,
.\"access is denied.  If access is denied this way by
.\"\*Lhosts.equiv\*O, access may be allowed with \*L.rhosts\*O.
.SH "CAUTIONS"
.PP
For security purposes, the files \*L/etc/hosts.equiv\*O and \*L.rhosts\*O
should exist and be readable and writable only by the owner,
even if they are empty.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
The following are sample entries in an \*L/etc/hosts.equiv\*O file:
.oS
# Allows access to users on host1 and host2 that have accounts on this host:
host1
host2

# Allows access to user johnson on host1:
host1 johnson

# Allows access to user romero on host3:
host3 romero

# Allows access to all users on systems specified in netgroup chicago
+@chicago

# Denies access to users specified in netgroup finance on host5
host5 -@finance

# Allows access to all users on all systems except root
+ -root
.oE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands: \*Lrcp\*O(1), \*Lrlogin\*O(1), \*Lrsh\*O(1)
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
Functions: \*Lruserok\*O(3).
.PP
Files: \*Lnetgroup\*O(4)
.PP
.\" End Digital-specific information
.\"
.\"Removed per Ron Menner 8/17/93
.\"\*Llpd\*O(8), 
Daemons: \*Lrlogind\*O(8), \*Lrshd\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
