.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: inetd.conf.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/13 21:58:46 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH inetd.conf 4
.SH NAME
\*Linetd.conf\*O \- The default configuration file for the \*Linetd\*O daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/etc/inetd.conf
.sE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "inetd.conf daemon"
.iX "daemons" "inetd.conf"
.iX "configuration file" "inetd daemon"
If the \*Linetd\*O daemon is started
without specifying an alternate configuration file,
the \*Linetd\*O daemon reads this file for information
on how to handle Internet service requests. The \*Linetd\*O daemon
reads its configuration file only when the \*Linetd\*O daemon starts
or when the \*Linetd\*O daemon receives a \*LSIGHUP\*O signal.
Each line in the\*L inetd\*O configuration file defines how to handle
one Internet service request.
.PP
Each line is of the form:
.iS
\*VServiceName SocketType ProtocolName Wait/NoWait UserName \e
                                         ServerPath ServerArgs\*O
.iE
.PP
These fields must be separated by spaces or tabs.
Continuation lines are terminated with a \e (backslash).  Comments
are denoted with a # (number sign).  The fields
have the following meanings:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*VServiceName\*O"
Contains the name of an Internet service
defined in the \*L/etc/services\*O file. For services provided internally
by the \*Linetd \*Odaemon, this name must be the official name
of the service. That is, the name must be identical to the first entry
on the line that describes the service in the \*L/etc/services\*O file.
.LI "\*VSocketType\*O"
Contains the name for the type of socket used
for the service.  You can use either the \*Lstream\*O
value for a stream socket, the \*Ldgram\*O value for a datagram socket, the
\*Lraw\*O value for a raw socket, the \*Lrdm\*O value for a reliably delivered
message socket, or the \*Lseqpacket\*O value for a sequenced packet socket.
.br
.ne 9P
.LI "\*VProtocolName\*O"
Contains the name of an Internet protocol
defined in the \*L/etc/protocols\*O file.
For example, use the \*Ltcp\*O  value for a service that uses the
TCP/IP protocol and the \*Ludp\*O value for a service that uses
the UDP protocol.
.IP
For RPC services the field consists of the string \*Lrpc\*O followed by
a slash (/) and one of the following:
.ML
.LI
An asterisk (*)
.LI
One or more \*Vnettype\*Os
.LI
One or more \*Vnetid\*Os
.LI
A combination of \*Vnettype\*Os and \*Vnetid\*Os
.LE
.IP
If you specify an invalid \*Vnettype\*O, it is treated as a \*Vnetid\*O.
For example, if you specify \*Lrpc/*\*O, it specifies the service uses
all the transports supported by the system.
.LI "\*VWait/NoWait\*O"
Contains either the \*Lwait\*O or the \*Lnowait\*O
instruction for datagram sockets and the \*Lnowait\*O instruction
for stream sockets. The \*VWait/NoWait\*O field determines whether
or not the \*Linetd\*O daemon waits for a datagram server to release
the socket before continuing to listen at the socket.
.LI "\*VUserName\*O"
Specifies the username that the \*Linetd\*O
daemon should use to start the server. This variable allows a server
to be given less permission than root.
.LI "\*VServerPath\*O"
Specifies the full pathname of the server
that the \*Linetd\*O daemon should execute to provide the service.
For services that the \*Linetd\*O daemon provides internally, this
field should be internal.
.LI "\*VServerArgs\*O"
Specifies the command line arguments that
the \*Linetd\*O daemon should use to execute the server. These
arguments begin with the name of the server used. For services that
the \*Linetd\*O daemon provides internally, this field should be
empty.
.LE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
The following are sample entries in the \*L/etc/inetd.conf\*O
file for an \*Linetd\*O daemon that:
.ML
.LI
Uses the \*Lftpd\*O daemon for servicing \*Lftp\*O requests
.LI
Uses the \*Ltalkd\*O daemon for \*Lntalk\*O requests
.LI
Provides time requests internally
.LE
.br
.ne 12P
.oS
ftp stream tcp nowait root /usr/sbin/ftpd ftpd
ntalk dgram udp wait root /usr/sbin/talkd talkd
time stream tcp nowait root internal
time dgram udp wait  root internal
.oE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Daemons: \*Linetd\*O(8)
.PP
Files: \*Lprotocols\*O(4), \*Lservices\*O(4)
.\" Not in set
.\", \*Linetd.sec\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
