.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: inittab.4,v $ $Revision: 3.7.2.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/10/06 17:19:16 $
.\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
...\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.TH inittab 4
.iX "inittab file"
.iX "file" "inittab"
.iX "inittab"
.SH NAME
.PP 
\*Linittab\*O \- Controls the initialization process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
\*L/etc/inittab\*O
.\" \*L/tcb/files/inittab\*O  -  Change by D. Suitor
.sE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The \*Linittab\*O file provides the \*Linit\*O
program with instructions for creating and running initialization processes.
The \*Linit\*O program reads
the \*Linittab\*O file each time \*Linit\*O is invoked.
The file typically contains instructions for the default initialization,
the creation and control of processes at each run level, and
the \*Lgetty\*O command, which controls the activation of terminal lines.
.PP 
Each line in the \*Linittab\*O file contains an entry that has 
four fields; each field is separated by a colon.
There is no limit to the number of entries in the \*Linittab\*O
file. The entry syntax is as follows:
.iS
Identifier:Runlevel:Action:Command
.iE
.PP 
.VL
.LI "\*LIndentifier\*O"
Specifies a fourteen character field used to
uniquely identify an object.
.LI "\*LRunlevel\*O"
Specifies a twenty character field that defines
the run levels in which the object is to be processed. \*LRunlevel\*O
corresponds to a configuration of processes in a system. Each process
spawned by the \*Linit\*O command is assigned one or more run levels
in which it is allowed to exist.  The run levels are as follows:
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.VL
.LI "\*L0\*O"
Specifies the halt state.
.LI "\*L2\*O" 
Specifies multiuser state without network services.
.LI "\*L3\*O"
Specifies multiuser state with network services.
.LI "\*LS\*O or \*Ls\*O"
Specifies single-user state.
.LE
.\" End Digital-specific information
You can define multiple run levels for a process by specifying more
than one run level character in any combination.
.LI "\*LAction\*O"
Specifies a twenty character field that tells \*Linit\*O
how to treat the specified process.  \*Linit\*O recognizes 
the following \*LAction\*O values:
.VL
.LI "\*Lrespawn\*O"
Specifies that if the process does not exist or if it dies, \*Linit\*O
starts it.  If the process exists, \*Linit\*O continues to process the 
\*Linittab\*O file.
.LI "\*Lwait\*O"
Specifies that if \*Linit\*O enters
a run level that matches the run level specified in the \*Linittab\*O file
entry, it starts the process and
waits for its termination.  As long as \*Linit\*O continues in this run
level, it does not act on subsequent reads of the entry in the \*Linittab\*O
file.
.LI "\*Lonce\*O"
Specifies that if \*Linit\*O enters a run level that matches the run level
specified in the \*Linittab\*O file,
it starts the process and does not wait for its termination.  When the 
process stops, \*Linit\*O does not restart it.
If \*Linit\*O enters a new run level where the process is still running
from a previous runlevel change, \*Linit\*O does not restart the process.
.LI "\*Lboot\*O"
Specifies that when \*Linit\*O
first executes and reads the \*Linittab\*O file, it processes this entry.
The \*Linit\*O program starts the process and does not wait for its
termination.   When the process stops, \*Linit\*O does not restart it.
The run level specified in this \*Linittab\*O file entry should be 
the default run level, or it must match the
run level in which \*Linit\*O operates at boot time.
.LI "\*Lbootwait\*O"
Specifies that when \*Linit\*O first executes and reads the \*Linittab\*O file,
it processes this \*Linittab\*O file entry.  The \*Linit\*O program 
starts the process, waits for its termination and, when it dies,
does not restart the process.
.LI "\*Lpowerfail\*O"
Specifies that if \*Linit\*O receives the \*LSIGPWR\*O power fail signal,
it executes the process associated with this line.
.LI "\*Lpowerwait\*O"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Removed extra 'the' per QAR 6887.
Specifies that if \*Linit\*O receives the \*LSIGPWR\*O power fail signal,
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
it executes the process associated with this line
and waits until the process terminates before continuing processing 
the \*Linittab\*O file.
.LI "\*Loff\*O"
Specifies that if the process associated with this line is
currently running, \*Linit\*O sends the warning
signal \*LSIGTERM\*O and waits 20 seconds before sending the
kill signal \*LSIGKILL\*O.  If the process does not existent, 
\*Linit\*O ignores the \*Linittab\*O entry.
.LI "\*Linitdefault\*O"
Specifies that a line with this action is processed
when \*Linit\*O is originally invoked.  The \*Linit\*O program
uses this line to determine the run level to enter originally.
It determines this by taking the highest run level specified in the
run level field and using that as its initial state. If the run level
field is empty, this is interpreted as 0s23, causing \*Linit\*O to 
enter run level \*L3\*O.  If \*Linit\*O
does not find an \*Linitdefault\*O entry in the \*Linittab\*O
file, it requests an initial run level from the operator.
.LI "\*Lsysinit\*O"
Specifies that entries of this type are executed before
\*Linit\*O tries to access the console. 
This \*Linittab\*O file entry should be used only to initialize 
devices on which \*Linit\*O could attempt to request a run level.
.LE 
.LI "\*LCommand\*O"
Specifies a 1024 character field that contains the \*Lsh\*O
command to be executed.  The command is prefixed
with exec.  Any legitimate \*Lsh\*O syntax can appear in the command
field. Comments can be inserted be specifying a number sign (#). The line
continuation character \*L\\\*O can be placed at the end of a line.
.LE 
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
The following is an example of an \*Linittab\*O file entry for a 
terminal line:
.oS
tty01:23:respawn:/usr/sbin/getty /dev/tty08 9600 vt100
.oE
.SH "FILES"
.PP
.VL
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - Note location
.LI "\*L/usr/sbin/getty\*O"
.\" End Digital-specific information
Specifies the command that initializes and controls terminal lines.
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - Added getty.8
Commands: \*Linit\*O(8), \*Lgetty\*O(8)
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP 
Functions:  \*Lkill\*O(2)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
.EQ
delim off
.EN
