.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: intro.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/15 21:28:21 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)intro.4 3.1 3/13/92
.TH intro 4
.SH NAME
intro \- Introduction to file formats
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "intro(4) keyword"
This section describes the formats of various include files,
program output files, and system files.
.\" Removed because it is no longer applicable
.\".PP
.\"The Section 4 DEC OSF/1 reference pages are
.\"made up of an OSF-supplied component
.\"and a Digital-supplied component.
.\"The title line of an OSF-supplied
.\"reference page carries an "OSF" label while the Digital-supplied
.\"reference pages are labeled "Digital".
.\".PP
.\"When OSF-supplied code operates differently on Digital platforms or
.\"has Digital extensions, information is added to the OSF reference page
.\"and marked as
.\".br
.\"\*L[Digital only]\*O.
.\".PP
.\"When needed, technical corrections have been made to the OSF-supplied
.\"reference pages.
.PP
The suffixes used on some reference pages are used only to allow reference
pages with the same base name to exist on DEC OSF/1 systems. When used,
suffixes are made up of one to four letters. See the \*Lman\*O(1)
reference page for more information on suffixes.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
