.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: iptos.4,v $ $Revision: 1.1.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/16 18:14:31 $
.\"
.TH iptos 4
.PP
.SH NAME
\*Liptos\*O \- Defines the IP Type Of Service (TOS) options for FTP and Telnet
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "iptos"
.iX "Type Of Service" "iptos"
\*L/etc/iptos\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*L/etc/iptos\*O file configures the Type Of Service (TOS) option of the
Internet Protocol (IP) used by FTP and Telnet.
.PP
The TOS option in the Internet datagram is to specify how the datagram
should be handled.  It is a mechanism to allow control information to
have precedence over data.
.PP
Generally, protocols that are involved in direct interaction with
a human should select low delay, while data transfers that
involve large blocks of data need high throughput.  Finally, high
reliability is most important for datagram-based Internet management
functions.
.PP
In the
DEC OSF/1
operating system, the \*Lftp\*O and \*Ltelnet\*O
applications and the \*Lftpd\*O and \*Ltelnetd\*O daemons
allow the configuring of TOS values.  These applications check to see
if the \*L/etc/iptos\*O file exists; if the file exists, the
applications obtain
the TOS value from the file and use that value to set the TOS option.
If the \*L/etc/iptos\*O file does
not exist, the applications default to the following TOS values
recommended by RFC1060:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lftp-control\*O"
Low delay
.LI "\*Lftp-data\*O"
High throughput
.LI "\*Ltelnet\*O"
Low delay
.LE
.PP
Users who want to configure their own TOS values for the TOS option
should provide the \*L/etc/iptos\*O file.
.br
.ne 9P
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.RS 5
Most IP routers do not differentiate based on TOS, and
therefore providing values other than the default would have no affect.
Digital does not recommend changing the default values for FTP and
Telnet.
.sp 6p
.RE
.PP
Each entry should consist of a single line of the form:
.iS
.sp
\*VApplication  Proto  TOS-bits  aliases\*O
.sp
.iE
.PP
The entry fields contain the following information:
.VL 4M
.LI "\*VApplication\*O"
The name of an application TOS entry.
.LI "\*VProto\*O"
The protocol name for which the entry is appropriate.
.LI "\*VTOS-bits\*O"
The TOS value to be set for the entry.
.LI "\*Valiases\*O"
A list of aliases that exist for the entry.
.LE
.PP
Items on an entry line are separated by any number of blanks, tabs, or
combination of blanks and tabs.
A number sign (#) indicates that the rest of the line is a comment and is
not interpreted by routines that search the file.  Blank lines in the
file are ignored.
.PP
Valid TOS entry names are \*Lftp-control\*O and \*Lftp-data\*O for FTP and
\*Ltelnet\*O for Telnet.
.PP
The TOS value for the entry should be one of the following hexadecimal
numbers, corresponding to TOS option bits:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L0x10\*O"
Low delay
.LI "\*L0x08\*O"
High throughput
.LI "\*L0x04\*O"
High reliability
.LE
.nP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example shows typical entries in the \*L/etc/iptos\*O file:
.sp
.iS
#
# Format of this file:
# Application   Proto  TOS-bits       aliases
#
ftp-control     tcp    0x10
ftp-data         tcp    0x08
telnet             tcp    0x10
.iE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
RFC1060, \*Lftp\*O(1), \*Ltelnet\*O(1), \*Lftpd\*O(8), \*Ltelnetd\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
