.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: kitcap.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/15 20:20:14 $
.\"
.TH kitcap 4
.SH NAME
\*Lkitcap\*O \- Kit descriptor database for gentapes and gendisk utilities.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "kitcap file"
The
\*Lkitcap\*O
file is a database for kit descriptors containing product codes and the
names of the directories, files, and subsets that make up a product
description to be used by
\*Lgentapes\*O
or
\*Lgendisk\*O
to create distribution media.  All fields are separated by colons (:)
with a backslash (\e) at the end of a line indicating continuation.
Lines starting with a number sign (#) are comments and are ignored.
Comment fields with a kitcode description are delimited by an opening
number sign (#) and a closing colon (:).
.PP
The following
\*Lkitcap\*O
entry examples are for TK50 and MT9 media types:
.br
.oS
Product-codeTK | Product Description:directory1:directory2:\e
        directory3:SPACE:SPACE:SPACE:INSTCTRL:subset1:subset2:subset3:\e
        subset4:subset5

Product-codeMT | Product Description:directory1:directory2:\e
        directory3:SPACE:SPACE:SPACE:INSTCTRL:subset1:subset2:subset3:\e
        subset4:subset5:\&%\&%2:\e
        subset6:subset7:subset8:subset9:subset10
.oE
.PP
The following parts make up the
\*Lkitcap\*O
descriptor for magnetic tape media:
.TP
Product-code
This is an arbitrary name made up of letters and/or numbers unique to
the product that it describes.  Typical codes include a product
identifier and a version identifier, as indicated in the previous
examples.  For example, if the product name is MYPRODUCT and the
version is 1.0, the product-code might be
\*LMYPRODUCT100\*O.
.TP
Media-code (TK or MT)
The media-code is a 2-letter reference specifying the type of media
the files will be written onto.  The media code must be either TK for
TK50 or MT for 9-track magnetic tape devices.  During run time, the
\*Lgentapes\*O
utility probes the device to be written to and determines if it is a
TK50 or MT9 device.  It then appends either TK or MT to the
product-code given on the command line and searches for the
corresponding kit identifier (product-code/media-code) in the
\*Lkitcap\*O
file.
.TP
Product Description
This field is a description of the software product that is being
created by the
\*Lgentapes\*O
utility.  It replaces the NAME field in the control file
(\*Vfilename\*O.\*Lctrl\*O)
for each of the subsets that make up a product.  This field is optional
for magnetic tape media.
.TP
Directories
The
\*Lgentapes\*O
utility can produce multiproduct tapes.  That is, it can take subsets
from different products, based in different directories, and merge them
on the tape to form a combined product.  Directory entries provide the
full path locations for the subsets that are to be put on the media.
There must be at least one directory entry for each
\*Lkitcap\*O
descriptor.
.TP
SPACE
The
\*LSPACE\*O
file is a placeholder for tape records, containing 10Kb of NULL
characters.  Three
\*LSPACE\*O
files are used as dummy files to ensure compatibility with operating
system kits.
.TP
INSTCTRL
The
\*LINSTCTRL\*O
image contains
\*Lsetld\*O
control information.
.TP
Subsets
This field provides a list of subsets or files that are to be either
written to the magnetic tape media or verified from the magnetic tape
media.  Each subset listed must be stored in one of the directories
listed in the
\*Lkitcap\*O
descriptor.  If a file or subset is stored in a subdirectory of one of
the directories listed in the kitcap descriptor, it is possible to
include that sub-path with the subset/filename entry instead of listing
the entire path/subpath as another directory listing.  For example, a
directory listed in the
\*Lkitcap\*O
descriptor under the rules given in the Directories section is listed
as:
.oS
/KITS/MYPRODUCT/001
.oE
A particular subset or file to be included on the media is stored in:
.oS
/KITS/MYPRODUCT/001/\f2subdirectory/subset\fP
.oE
Since the subdirectory/subset specification is part of the
\*L/KITS/MYPRODUCT/001\*O
directory tree, it is not necessary to include the full path of the
\*L/KITS/MYPRODUCT/001/\*O
subdirectory in the directory listing.   An alternative is to include
the subdirectory path with the subset name in the subset list.  For
example:
.oS
MY-PROD-001 | This is a good product:\e
        /KITS/MYPRODUCT/001:SPACE:SPACE:SPACE:\e
        INSTCTRL:subset1:subset2:subdirectory/subset3:subset4
.oE
.TP
Volume identifier
.br
The volume identifier is optional.  Multi-tape support is provided for
products that have subsets or files requiring more space than is
available on a single 9-track magnetic tape.  If the subset list
results in an end-of-tape condition, the subset list can be split into
any number of multi-volume sets by placing
\*L\&%\&%\*O\*Vn\*O
anywhere appropriate in the subset list (where
\*Vn\*O
is the volume number of the next tape).  The subsets listed between the
volume identifiers must fit on a single piece of media.  By default,
the subset list located directly after the directory list is always
considered the first volume.  Therefore, a volume identifier for the
first volume in a multi-volume kit descriptor is not necessary.
.PP
The following example shows a
\*Lkitcap\*O
entry for disks:
.oS
Product-codeHD:partition:\e
        dd=/:Product_Description:\e
        directory1:directory2:directory3:\e
        instctrl:subset1:subset2:subset3:subset4:subset5:\e
        dd=SUB/DIR:Product_Description:\e
        instctrl:directory1:directory2:directory3:\e
        subset1:subset2:subset3:subset4:subset5
.oE
.PP
The following parts make up the kitcap descriptor for disk
media:
.VL
.LI "Product-code"
Same as for magnetic tape.
.LI "Media-code"
The media code for disks is HD and is appended to the product-code by
the \*Lgendisk\*O utility.
.LI "Disk Partition"
This field specifies the partition in which the software is to be
written on the media being created.
.LI "dd="
This field specifies the directory in which to write the subsets on the
disk media being created.  The contraction \*Ldd\*O
can be thought of as the ``destination directory'' for the subsets.
This field is required and allows a hierarchical structure so that you
can put multiple products on the same disk or place parts of one
product into different areas on the disk.
.LE
.PP
Typically, a disk is mounted by the
\*Lgendisk\*O
utility onto a temporary mount point under
\*L/usr/tmp\*O.
This location becomes the disk's root directory.  To specify only one
directory for an entire product, a valid entry would be
\*Ldd=/\*O.
This entry tells the
\*Lgendisk\*O
utility to write all the following subsets under the mount point.
.PP
In the disk
\*Lkitcap\*O
descriptor example given previously, the first five subsets are written
to the mount point, or root directory, for the disk media being made.
Then a new directory,
\*L/mnt_point/SUB/DIR\*O,
is created on the disk media and the next five subsets are written into
that directory.
.PP
It is important to note that the top-level directory of the media disk
is always considered the mount point used by the
\*Lgendisk\*O
script and is referenced by
\*Ldd=/\*O.
Any subdirectories listed as destination directories are created
starting from the mount point and must be referenced in full.  For
instance, in the previous example, to put some other subsets in a
subdirectory of DIR, the entry would be dd=SUB/DIR/SUBSUBDIR.  Note
that each new destination directory requires a product description.
.VL
.LI "Product Description"
This field is similar to the one defined for magnetic tape.  However,
in the case of disk media the product description is a required field,
and all words in the description must be connected with underscores
(_).  The \*Lgendisk\*O script removes the underscores at run time.  For
example, to create the description ``This is a good product'' the Product
Description entry when making disk media would be:
.oS
This_is_a_good_product
.oE
.LI "Directories"
Same as for magnetic tape.
.LI "instctrl"
A directory containing the same information as the \*LINSTCTRL\*O
file on magnetic tape.
.LI "Subsets"
Same as for magnetic tape.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
TK50 and MT9 (single-volume tape)
\*Lkitcap\*O
description:
.oS
MYPRODUCT400 | MYPRODUCT software version 4:\e
        :# directory listing :\e
        /directory1:/directory2:/directory3:\e
        SPACE:SPACE:SPACE:INSTCTRL:\e
        :# subset listing :\e
        subset1:subset2:subset3:subset4:subset5
.oE
.PP
MT9 kitcap description (multivolume tape):
.oS
MYPRODUCT400 | MYPRODUCT software version 4:\e
        /directory1:/directory2:/directory3:\e
        SPACE:SPACE:SPACE:INSTCTRL:\e
        subset1:subset2:subset3:subset4:subset5:\e
        :# Volume 2 :\e
        \&%\&%2:\e
        subset6:subset7:subset8:subset9:subset10
.oE
.PP
Disk kitcap description (single product):
.oS
MYPRODUCT400:c:\e
        dd=/:MYPRODUCT_software_version_4:\e
        /directory1:/directory2:/directory3:\e
        instctrl:subset1:subset2:subset3:subset4:subset5
.oE
.PP
Disk kitcap description (multiple product):
.oS
MYPRODUCT400:c:\e
        dd=MYPRODUCT/BASE:\e
        MYPRODUCT_software_version_4_base_subsets:\e
        /directory1:/directory2:/directory3:\e
        instctrl:subset1:subset2:subset3:subset4:subset5:\e
        dd=MYPRODUCT/NONBASE:\e
        MYPRODUCT_software_version_4_nonbase_subsets:\e
        /directory1:/directory2:/directory3:\e
        instctrl:subset1:subset2:subset3:subset4:subset5
.oE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  gendisk(1), gentapes(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
