.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: locks.4,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.8 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/19 13:35:44 $
.\"
.TH locks 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Llocks\*O \- A directory that contains lock files for communication devices and remote systems that prevent multiple attempts to use the same device or contact a remote system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.iX "locks file"
.PP
.sS
\*L/var/spool/locks\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Lock files are created by the \*Luucico\*O daemon, the \*Lcu\*O command,
the \*Ltip\*O command, and the \*Luugetty\*O command in the
\*L/var/spool/locks\*O directory. The files are created when the utility opens
the serial line for communication.
.PP
The lock file locks the device or remote system so that another process cannot
access it while it is in use. The file name of the lock file uses one of the
following forms:
.iS
\*LLCK..\*Vdevice_name\*O
\*LLCK..\*Vsystem_name\*O
.iE
Where \*Vdevice_name\*O is the name of the device (such as \*Lttyd0\*O) and
\*Vsystem_name\*O is the name of the system (such as \*Lhera\*O).
.PP
Normally, the process that creates a lock file will remove it when the
process has finished using the line. However, it is possible for lock files
to be left behind (for example: system crash, phone line disconnects
unexpectedly). This situation has been accounted for and the commands that
use lock files can handle the situation and overwrite these files, if
appropriate.
.PP
Lock files contains the process ID (PID) of the process that created the lock.
The lock file is a data file; to see its contents, use the following
command:
.iS
 od -d \*Vlockfile\*O
.iE
.PP
Where \*Vlockfile\*O is the name of the file. For example:
.iS
\*C% \*Lod -d /var/spool/locks/LCK..ttyd0\*O
.iE
.oS
0000000  06854 00000
0000004
.oE
.PP
In this example, the lock file (\*LLCK..ttyd0\*O) was created by the process
with PID 6854.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp\*O"
Contains the \*Luucico\*O daemon and \*Luugetty\*O program.
.LI "\*L/usr/bin\*O"
Contains the \*Luucp\*O, \*Lcu\*O, and \*Ltip\*O programs.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:
\*Lcu\*O(1),
\*Lod\*O(1),
\*Ltip\*O(1),
\*Luucp\*O(1),
\*Luugetty\*O(8)
.PP
Daemons:
\*Luucico\*O(8),
.EQ
delim off
.EN
