.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Log.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 16:21:56 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
.\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail 
.\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH Log 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*LLog\*O, \*L.Log\*O \- Contains the \*Luucp\*O program log files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Log\*O
.sE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "Log" "uucp log files"
.iX "uucp" "log files"
The \*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Log\*O directories contain \*Luucp\*O
program log files.  The \*Luucp\*O program normally places
status information about each transaction in the appropriate log file
each time you use the networking utilities facility.
All transactions of the \*Luucico\*O and \*Luuxqt\*O daemons are logged
in files named for the remote system concerned.  The files are stored
in a subdirectory of the \*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Log\*O directory named
for the daemon involved.  Thus, the log files are named with a form
of the following:
.iS
\*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Log/\*VDaemonName\*L/\*VSystemName\*O
.iE
.PP
The \*Luucp\*O and \*Luuto\*O commands call the
\*Luucico\*O daemon.  The \*Luucico\*O daemon activities for a particular
remote system are logged in the \*VSystemName\*O file in the
\*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Log/uucico\*O directory on the local system.
.PP
.\"Begin Digital correction.
The \*Luux\*O and \*Luusend\*O commands call the \*Luuxqt\*O
.\"End Digital correction.
daemon.  The \*Luuxqt\*O daemon activities for a particular
remote system are logged in the \*VSystemName\*O file in
the \*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Log/uuxqt\*O directory on the local system.
.PP
When more than one \*Luucp\*O process is running, however, the system
cannot access the standard log file, so it places the status information
in a file with a \*L.Log\*O prefix that covers just the single transaction.
.PP
The \*Luucp\*O program can automatically append the temporary log files
to a primary log file.  This is called \*Lcompacting the log files\*O,
and is handled by the \*Luudemon.cleanu\*O command,
a shell procedure, which combines the log files of the activities
of the \*Luucico\*O and \*Luuxqt\*O daemons on a system
and stores them in the \*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*L.Old\*O directory.
.PP
The default is for the \*Luudemon.cleanu\*O command to save
log files that are 2 days old.  This default can be changed by modifying
the appropriate line in the shell script.  If storage space is a problem
on a particular system, reduce the number of days that the files are
kept in the individual log files.
.PP
The \*Luulog\*O command can be
used to view the \*Luucp\*O program log files.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Daemons: \*Lcron\*O, \*Luucico\*O(8), \*Luusched\*O(8)
.\", \*Luuxqt\*O(8)
.PP
Commands: \*Luucp\*O(1), \*Luudemon.cleanu\*O(4), \*Luulog\*O(1),
\*Luusend\*O(1), \*Luuto\*O(1), \*Luux\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
