.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: magic.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 23:15:35 $
.\"
.TH magic 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lmagic\*O \- Magic file for the \*Lfile\*O command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/etc/magic\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "magic file"
.iX "file command"
.iX "magic number
The \*Lmagic\*O file is used by the \*Lfile\*O
command to identify files that have some sort of magic number.
A magic number is any numeric or string constant that identifies
the file containing the constant.
.PP
The format for the \*Lmagic\*O file is as follows:
.PP
\*L     offset   type   operator,value   string\*O
.PP
The fields should be separated by tabs.  Each record must be contained
on one line.
.PP
The fields contain the following data:
.PP
Byte Offset
.IP
This field contains the number of bytes from the beginning of the
file that you are running the \*Lfile\*O command on to the
first byte of the magic number of character string you want to
identify.  Use a right angle bracket (>) to indicate a continuation
line that supplies additional information describing the file.
.PP
Value Type
.IP
This field contains information about the data type of the
magic number or character string at the specified byte offset.
Valid data types for this field are:
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
l l.
byte@unsigned character type
short@unsigned short type
long@long type
string@character (byte) string
.TE
.PP
Comparison Operator
.IP
This field contains instructions for the \*Lfile\*O command on how
to compare the value read from the file being checked with the
value stored in the Value Type field of the magic file.  The
valid comparison operators are:
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
lw(0.25i) lw(4.0i) .
.sp
\&=@T{
The two values are equal.
T}
.sp
>@T{
The value in the magic file is greater than the value in the file
being checked.
T}
.sp
<@T{
The value in the magic file is less than the value in the file
being checked.
T}
.sp
.TE
.IP
Note that the Comparison Operator field is optional.  If you do
not specify the operator, the values are expected to be equal.
.PP
Value
.IP
This field contains the value used to compare what is read from
the file being checked by the \*Lfile\*O command.  You can use
decimal, hex, or octal numbers in this field or character strings
in the form of regular expressions.
.IP
Precede all hex numbers with the characters zero and x, for example
0x80.  To specify an octal number, precede it with a zero, for example
0200.  Decimal numbers require no special representation and should
be written as integers, for example 128.
.IP
The rules for specifying character strings follow those of the \*Led\*O
editor (see ed(1)) for regular expressions with two extensions:
.VL 4
.LI
You use the backslash (\e) to escape unprintable character.  The string
can contain all special character such as \en, \eb, \er, and \ef.
If a backslash appears in the string, it must be escaped with a
second backslash (\e\e).  You can use octal representation to specify
any byte value other than zero (0).
.LI
Text found in the file can be inserted into the printed string if
it is preceded and followed by \e\e% delimiters.  All text found
between these delimiters is displayed as the print string.
.LE
.IP
This regular expression search never terminates until a match is
explicitly found or rejected.  The special character \\n is a valid
character in the patterns.  Therefore, the pattern \.* should
never be used here.
.PP
String
.IP
This field contains the string to print.  The string provides information
about the file.  The string can include text found in the file
when requested with an appropriate \*Lprintf()\*O format.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following is an example of a script:
.oS
string ^#!{ }*\e\e%[^ \en]*\e\e%     %s
.oE
.PP
The following are examples of executable images:
.oS
>2       short   02                     POSIX
>2       short   01                     SVID
>16      long    >0                     not stripped
.oE
.PP
The following are examples of text and data files:
.oS
0       string  ^\e01h[0-9][0-9][0-9][0-9][0-9]   sccsfile
0       string  ^#ifndef                         c program
0       string  ^070707                          ASCII cpio archive
.oE
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/etc/magic\*O
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lfile\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
