.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mh-mail.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/17 19:03:27 $
.\"
.TH mh-mail 4
.SH NAME
\*Lmh-mail\*O \- Message format for MH message system
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "mh-mail formatter"
.iX "MH system" "message formatter"
MH processes messages in a particular format.
Although neither Bell nor Berkeley mailers
produce message files in the format that MH prefers,
MH can read message files in that format.
.PP
Each user has a maildrop that initially receives
all messages processed by \*Lpost\*O(8).
.PP
The \*Linc\*O command reads from the maildrop and
incorporates the new messages found there
into the user's own \*L+inbox\*O folder.
The maildrop consists of one or more messages.
.PP
Messages are expected to consist of lines of text.
Graphics and binary data are not handled.
No data compression is accepted.
All text is in ASCII 7-bit data.
.PP
The general memo framework of RFC 822 is used.
A message consists of a block of information in a rigid format,
followed by general text with no specified format.
The rigidly-formatted first part of a message is called the message header;
the free-format portion is called the body.
The header must always exist, but the body is optional.
These parts are separated by a blank line or by a line of dashes.
The following example shows the standard default MH mail header:
.oS
To:
cc:
Subject:
--------
.oE
.PP
The header is composed of one or more header items.
Each header item can be viewed as a single logical line
of ASCII characters.
If the text of a header item extends across several real lines,
the continuation lines are indicated by leading spaces or tabs.
.PP
Each header item is called a component and is composed of a
keyword or name, along with associated text.
The keyword begins at the left margin,
and is terminated by a colon (:).
It cannot contain spaces or tabs,
and cannot exceed 63 characters, as specified by RFC 822.
.PP
The text for most formatted components,
such as \*LDate:\*O and \*LMessage-Id:\*O, is
produced automatically.
The user enters address fields such as \*LTo:\*O and \*Lcc:\*O, and the
\*LSubject:\*O field.
Internet addresses are assigned mailbox names
and host computer specifications.
The general format is \*Llocal@domain\*O, for example, \*LMH@UCI\*O or
\*LMH@UCI-ICSA.ARPA\*O.
A comma (,) separates multiple addresses.
A missing host/domain is assumed to be the local host/domain.
.PP
A blank line (or a line of dashes) signals that all following text
up to the end of the file is the body of the message.
No formatting is expected or enforced within the body.
.PP
The following is a list of header components
that are considered meaningful to MH programs:
.TP 10
\*LDate:\*O
Added by \*Lpost\*O, contains the date and time of the message's entry
into the transport system.
.TP 10
\*LFrom:\*O
Added by \*Lpost\*O, contains the address of the author or authors
(there may be more than one if a \*LSender:\*O field is present).
Replies are typically directed to addresses in the \*LReply-To:\*O or
\*LFrom:\*O field. The former has precedence, if present.
.TP 10
\*LSender:\*O
Added by \*Lpost\*O in the event that the message already has a \*LFrom:\*O
line.
This line contains the address of the actual sender.
Replies are never sent to addresses in the \*LSender:\*O field.
.TP 10
\*LTo:\*O
Contains addresses of primary recipients.
.TP 10
\*Lcc:\*O
Contains addresses of secondary recipients.
.TP 10
\*LBcc:\*O
Contains the addresses of recipients who receive
blind carbon copies of the message.
The \*LBcc:\*O line does not appear on the message as sent,
so these recipients are not listed.
Recipients in the \*LBcc:\*O field receive a copy of the message with
a minimal header. MH uses an encapsulation method for blind copies;
see \*Lsend\*O(1).
.TP 10
\*LFcc:\*O
Causes \*Lpost\*O to copy the message into the specified folder for the sender,
if the message was successfully given to the transport system.
.TP 10
\*LMessage-ID:\*O
A unique message identifier added by \*Lpost\*O, if the
.B \-msgid
flag is set.
.TP 10
\*LSubject:\*O
Sender's commentary.
It is displayed by \*Lscan\*O.
.TP 10
\*LIn-Reply-To:\*O
A commentary line added by \*Lrepl\*O when replying to a message.
.TP 10
\*LResent-Date:\*O
Added by \*Lpost\*O when a message is re-distributed.
.TP 10
\*LResent-From:\*O
Added by \*Lpost\*O when a message is re-distributed.
.TP 10
\*LResent-To:\*O
New recipients for a message re-sent by \*Ldist\*O.
.TP 10
\*LResent-cc:\*O
New secondary recipients for a message re-sent by \*Ldist\*O.
.TP 10
\*LResent-Bcc:\*O
New blind carbon copy recipients for a message re-sent by \*Ldist\*O.
.TP 10
\*LResent-Fcc:\*O
Places a copy of a message re-sent by \*Ldist\*O into the sender's folder.
.TP 10
\*LResent-Message-Id:\*O
A unique identifier of a message re-sent by \*Ldist\*O.
This is appended by \*Lpost\*O if the
.B \-msgid
flag is set.
.TP 10
\*LResent:\*O
Annotation added by \*Ldist\*O when the
.B \-annotate
option is specified.
.TP 10
\*LForwarded:\*O
Annotation added by \*Lforw\*O when the
.B \-annotate
option is specified.
.TP 10
\*LReplied:\*O
Annotation added by \*Lrepl\*O when the
.B \-annotate
option is specified.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L/usr/spool/mail/$USER\*O
Standard location of mail drop.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*VStandard for the Format of ARPA Internet Text Messages \*O
(RFC 822)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
