.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mh_profile.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/17 19:09:46 $
.\"
.TH mh_profile 4
.SH NAME
\*Lmh_profile\*O \- User customization for MH message system
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "mh_profile file"
.iX "MH system" "user customization file"
Each user of MH is expected to have a file named \*L\&.mh_profile\*O
in his or her home directory.
This file contains a set of static user parameters
used by some or all of the MH family of programs.
Each line of the file is in the format:
.oS
profile\-component: \f2value\fP
.oE
.PP
In addition, MH keeps information about changes in context
(for example, the current folder and message) in the \*Lcontext\*O
file, which is normally located in the user's Mail directory.
MH also consults a number of environment variables.
Both the \*Lcontext\*O file entries and these environment
variables are described in this reference page.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS Profile File Entries
The possible profile components are described in the following table.
Only \*LPath\*O is mandatory.
The others are optional;
some have default values if they are not present.
In the notation used below,
the default value is given in parentheses ( )
at the end of each entry.
.PP
When giving path names, \*L<mh-dir>\*O
is used to indicate the user's Mail directory.
This is the directory given by the \*LPath\*O
entry in the user's profile,
and is set up initially by MH to be
\*L$HOME/Mail\*O.
.\"
.TP 10
\*LPath: \*Vpathname\*O
Locates MH transactions in the named directory.
If the directory path name is not absolute
(does not begin with a \*L/\*O ), it is assumed
to begin in the user's home directory.
When you first use MH, it creates a directory called \*LMail\*O
in your home directory, and adds the appropriate entry to the
\*L\&.mh_profile\*O.
.br
(no default)
.\"
.TP
\*LContext: context\*O
Declares the location of the MH context file.
.br
(default: \*L<mh\-dir>/context\*O)
.\"
.TP
\*LPrevious-Sequence: pseq\*O
Names the sequences which should be defined as the
\*Vmsgs\*O
or
\*Vmsg\*O
argument given to the program.
If not present, or empty, no sequences are defined.
Otherwise, for each name given, the sequence is first zeroed and
then each message is added to the sequence.
.br
(no default)
.\"
.TP
\*LSequence-Negation: not\*O
Defines the string which, when prefixed to a sequence name,
negates that sequence.
Hence, the argument \*Lnotseen\*O means all those messages
that are not a member of the sequence \*Lseen\*O.
.br
(no default)
.\"
.TP
\*LUnseen-Sequence:\ unseen\*O
Names the sequences which should be defined
as those messages recently incorporated by \*Linc\*O.
The \*Lshow\*O command removes messages from this sequence once it thinks they
have been seen.
If not present, or empty, no sequences are defined.
Otherwise, for each name given, the sequence is first zeroed
and then each message is added to the sequence.
.br
(no default)
.\"
.TP
\*Lmh\-sequences: \&.mh_sequences\*O
The name of the file in each folder which defines public sequences.
To disable the use of public sequences,
leave the value portion of this entry blank.
.br
(default: \*L\&.mh_sequences\*O)
.\"
.TP
\*LEditor: /usr/ucb/vi\*O
Defines editor to be used by \*Lcomp\*O(1), \*Ldist\*O(1), \*Lforw\*O(1),
and \*Lrepl\*O(1).
.br
(default: \*Lprompter\*O)
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.TP
\*LTemplate-Editor: /usr/ucb/vi\*O
Defines editor invoked by the
.B \-template
option of \*Lcomp\*O(1), \*Ldist\*O(1), \*Lforw\*O(1), and
\*Lrepl\*O(1). This editor is used to fill in the X.400 address
template.
.br
(default: \*Lprompter\*O)
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.TP
\*LMsg\-Protect: 600\*O
Defines octal protection bits for message files.
See \*Lchmod\*O(1) for an explanation of the octal number.
.br
(default: 0600)
.\"
.TP
\*LFolder\-Protect: 700\*O
Defines protection bits for folder directories.
See \*Lchmod\*O(1) for an explanation of the octal number.
.br
(default: 0700)
.\"
.TP
\*Lcommand: \*Voptions\*O
Sets options to be used
whenever an MH command is invoked.
You should only set up options in your profile,
not arguments (options are usually introduced by a dash \*L-\*O).
You can override the options set up in the \*L\&.mh_profile\*O
by giving an option on the command line.
For example, you could override the \*LEditor\*O
profile component when replying to messages by
typing the command:
.oS
% \f(CBrepl \-editor /bin/ed\f1
.oE
.br
(no default)
.\"
.TP
\*LAliasfile: \*Vfilename\*O
Defines the alias file to be used by MH commands
which take the
.B \-alias
option.
The named file must be in the correct format; see \*Lmh-alias\*O(4).
.br
(no default)
.\"
.TP
\*L-next:\ nexteditor\*O
Names \*Lnexteditor\*O to be the default editor
after using \*Llasteditor\*O.
This takes effect at \*LWhat now?\*O level in \*Lcomp\*O, \*Ldist\*O,
\*Lforw\*O, and \*Lrepl\*O.
After editing the draft with \*Llasteditor\*O,
the default editor is set to be \*Lnexteditor\*O.
If the user types \*Ledit\*O without any arguments
at the  \*LWhat now?\*O prompt,
then \*Lnexteditor\*O is used.
.br
(no default)
.\"
.TP
\*Lmhe:\*O
If present, tells \*Linc\*O to compose an Emacs
audit file in addition to
its other tasks.
.br
(no default)
.\"
.TP
\*LAlternate\-Mailboxes: mh@uci\-750a, bug-mh*\*O
Tells \*Lrepl\*O and \*Lscan\*O which addresses are really yours.
In this way, \*Lrepl\*O knows which addresses should be included in the reply,
and \*Lscan\*O knows if the message really originated from you.
Addresses must be separated by a comma,
and the host names listed should be the official
host names for the mailboxes you indicate,
as local nicknames for hosts are not replaced
with their official site names.
For each address, if a host is not given,
then that address on any host is considered to be you.
In addition, an asterisk (\*L*\*O) may appear
at either or both ends of the mailbox and host
to indicate wild-card matching.
.br
(default: your user-id)
.\"
.TP
\*LDraft\-Folder: \*V+folder\*O
Specifies the name of the draft folder.
This is used by \*Lcomp\*O, \*Ldist\*O, \*Lforw\*O, and \*Lrepl\*O
to construct draft messages in, and to store unsent
draft messages.
A draft folder allows you to have more than one unsent draft
at a time.
The draft folder is conventionally called \*L+drafts\*O.
.br
(no default)
.\"
.TP
\*LMailDrop: \&.mail\*O
Tells \*Linc\*O your maildrop, if different from the default.
This is superseded by the \*L$MAILDROP\*O environment variable.
.br
(default: /usr/spool/mail/$USER)
.\"
.TP
\*LSignature: \"Rand MH System\"\*O
Tells \*Lsend\*O your mail signature.
This is superseded by the \*L$SIGNATURE\*O
environment variable.
The signature must be enclosed in double quotes (\*L" "\*O).
.br
(no default)
.\"
.\"
.PP
The following profile elements are used whenever an
MH program invokes some other program such as \*Lmore\*O(1).
The \*L\&.mh_profile\*O can be used to select alternative
programs if the user wishes.
The default values are as follows:
.oS
fileproc:       /usr/bin/mh/refile
incproc:        /usr/bin/mh/inc
installproc:    /usr/lib/mh/install\-mh
lproc:          /usr/ucb/more
mailproc:       /usr/bin/mh/mhmail
mhlproc:        /usr/lib/mh/mhl
moreproc:       /usr/ucb/more
mshproc:        /usr/bin/mh/msh
packproc:       /usr/bin/mh/packf
postproc:       /usr/lib/mh/post
rmmproc:         none
rmfproc:        /usr/bin/mh/rmf
sendproc:       /usr/bin/mh/send
showproc:       /usr/ucb/more
whatnowproc:    /usr/bin/mh/whatnow
whomproc:       /usr/bin/mh/whom
.oE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS Context File Entries
Changes in context are made to the \*Lcontext\*O
file kept in the users Mail directory.
This includes, but is not limited to, the \*LCurrent-Folder\*O
entry, and all private sequence information.
Information kept in the \*Lcontext\*O
file is updated by MH programs as they are used;
the \*L\&.mh_profile\*O contains only static information, which MH programs
do not update.
.PP
The \*L\&.mh_profile\*O may override the path of the \*Lcontext\*O
file by specifying a \*Lcontext\*O
entry (this must be in lower-case).
If the entry is not absolute (does not start with \*L/\*O),
then it is interpreted relative to the user's Mail directory.
.PP
Private sequence information is kept in the \*Lcontext\*O
file.
Public sequence information is kept in a file called \*L\&.mh_sequences\*O
in each folder.
.PP
The \*Lcontext\*O file may contain the following components:
.\"
.TP
\*LCurrent-Folder: \*Vfolder\*O
Keeps track of the current open folder.
.br
(default: \*L+inbox\*O)
.\"
.TP
\*Latr\-seq\-folder: 172\0178\-181\0212\*O
Keeps track of the private sequence called \*Lseq\*O
in the specified folder.
.br
(no default)
.\"
.TP
\*LFolder-Stack: folders\*O
The contents of the folder-stack for the \*Lfolder\*O command.
.br
(no default)
.\"
.TP
\*Ldigest\-issue\-list: 1\*O
Tells \*Lforw\*O the last issue of the last volume sent for the digest
\*Llist\*O.
.br
(no default)
.\"
.br
.ne 9P
.TP
\*Ldigest\-volume\-list: 1\*O
Tells \*Lforw\*O the last volume sent for the digest \*Llist\*O.
.br
(no default)
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS Environment Variables
In addition to the \*L\&.mh_profile\*O and \*Lcontext\*O
files, MH programs consult a number of environment variables.
.PP
If you define the environment variable \*L$MH\*O,
you can specify a profile other than \*L\&.mh_profile\*O
to be read by the MH programs that you invoke.
If the value of \*L$MH\*O
is not absolute,
(that is, does not begin with \*L/\*O),
it will be presumed to start from the current working directory.
This is one of the very few exceptions in MH where non-absolute
pathnames are not considered relative to the user's Mail directory.
.PP
Similarly,
if you define the environment variable \*L$MHCONTEXT\*O,
you can specify a context other than the normal context file
(as specified in the \*L\&.mh_profile\*O).
Unless the value of \*L$MHCONTEXT\*O
is absolute, it will be presumed to start from your Mail directory.
.PP
MH programs also consult the following environment variables:
.\"
.TP 10
\*L$MAILDROP\*O
Tells \*Linc\*O the default maildrop.
This supersedes the \*LMaildrop\*O profile entry.
.\"
.TP
\*L$SIGNATURE\*O
Tells \*Lsend\*O and \*Lpost\*O your mail signature.
This supersedes the \*LSignature\*O profile entry.
.\"
.TP
\*L$HOME\*O
Tells all MH programs your home directory.
.\"
.TP
\*L$TERM\*O
Tells MH your terminal type.
The \*L$TERMCAP\*O
environment variable is also consulted.
In particular, these two environment variables tell \*Lscan\*O and
\*Lmhl\*O how to clear your terminal,
and how many columns wide your terminal is.
They also tell \*Lmhl\*O how many lines long your terminal screen is.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Some environment variables are set by MH programs for \*Lwhatnowproc\*O.
These are:
.\"
.TP 10
\*L$editalt\*O
The alternative message.
Set by \*Ldist\*O and \*Lrepl\*O during edit sessions
so you can view the message being distributed or replied to.
The message is also available through a link called \*L@\*O
in the current directory, as long as your current working
directory has write permission.
If your current working directory and
the folder containing the message are on the same file system,
this link is a hard link; otherwise, it is a symbolic link.
.\"
.TP
\*L$mhdraft\*O
The path to the working draft.
Set by \*Lcomp\*O, \*Ldist\*O, \*Lforw\*O, and \*Lrepl\*O to tell the
\*Lwhatnowproc\*O which file to ask \*LWhat now?\*O questions
about.
In addition, \*Ldist\*O, \*Lforw\*O, and \*Lrepl\*O set \*L$mhfolder\*O
if appropriate.
.\"
.TP
\*L$mhaltmsg\*O
Set by \*Ldist\*O and \*Lrepl\*O to tell the \*Lwhatnowproc\*O about
an alternative message associated with the draft
(the message being distributed or replied to).
.\"
.TP
\*L$mhdist\*O
Set by \*Ldist\*O to tell the \*Lwhatnowproc\*O that
message redistribution is occurring.
.\"
.TP
\*L$mheditor\*O
Set to tell the \*Lwhatnowproc\*O your choice of editor (unless overridden by
\f3\-noedit\f1).
.\"
.TP
\*L$mhuse\*O
May be set by \*Lcomp\*O.
.\"
.TP
\*L$mhmessages\*O
.\"
.TP
\*L$mhannotate\*O
.\"
.TP
\*L$mhinplace\*O
Set by \*Ldist\*O, \*Lforw\*O, and \*Lrepl\*O if
annotations are to occur.
The reason for this is that the MH user can select
any program as the \*Lwhatnowproc\*O, including
one of the standard shells.
As a result, it is not possible to pass information
via an argument list.
.\"
.TP
\*L$mhfolder\*O
The folder containing the alternate message.
Set by \*Ldist\*O and \*Lrepl\*O during edit sessions
so you can view other messages in the current folder,
besides the one being distributed or replied to.
The \*L$mhfolder\*O environment variable is also set by \*Lshow\*O,
\*Lprev\*O, and \*Lnext\*O for use by \*Lmhl\*O.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The shell quoting conventions are not available in the \*L\&.mh_profile\*O.
Each token is separated by white space.
.PP
It is recommended that you only set up
options to MH commands (and their values) in the \*L\&.mh_profile\*O.
Arguments such as file names, folders, and message sequences
should not be included in profile entries.
.PP
When conflicting options are given to MH commands,
the last option takes effect; earlier options are discarded.
This means that you can override an option you have set up in your
\*L\&.mh_profile\*O by giving a conflicting option at the command line.
Other arguments, such as file names, folders, or message sequences,
are always remembered, and are not superseded by later
arguments of the same kind.
Hence it is unwise to give arguments of this kind in your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O.
(Files and folders can be included in the \*L\&.mh_profile\*O as
values to options, for example,
\f3\-draftfolder +drafts\f1.
They should not be included when they stand as independent
arguments to the command.)
.PP
If you find that an MH program is being invoked again and again
with the same arguments (and these are not options),
there are several possible solutions.
.PP
The first is to create a symbolic link in your \*L$HOME/bin\*O
directory to the MH program of your choice.
By giving this link a different name,
you can create a new entry in your profile
and use an alternate set of defaults for the MH command.
.PP
Similarly, you could create a small shell script which calls the MH
program of your choice with an alternate set of invocation
line switches.
Using links and an alternate profile entry is preferable
to this solution.
.PP
Finally, if you are a \*Lcsh\*O user, you could
create an alias for the command of the form:
.oS
alias cmd /usr/bin/mh/cmd arg1 arg2 ...
.oE
In this way, you can avoid typing lengthy commands to the shell,
and still give MH commands safely.
Remember that some MH commands invoke others,
and that in all cases, the profile is read.
This means that aliases are disregarded
beyond an initial command invocation.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L$HOME/.mh_profile\*O
The user profile.
.\"
.TP
\*L<mh\-dir>/context\*O
The user's context file.
.\"
.TP
\*Vfolder\*L/.mh_sequences\*O
Public sequences for a particular folder.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lchmod\*O(1), \*Lmh\*O(1), \*Lenviron\*O(5)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
