.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mtstailor.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/17 19:11:15 $
.\"
.ds MA MH
.TH mtstailor 4
.SH NAME
\*Lmtstailor\*O \- System customization for MH message system
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "mtstailor file"
.iX "MH system" "system customization file"
The file \*L/usr/lib/mh/mtstailor\*O defines run-time options for those MH
programs which interact (in some form) with the message transport system.
At present, these (user) programs are: \*Lap\*O, \*Lconflict\*O, \*Linc\*O,
\*Lmsgchk\*O, \*Lmsh\*O, \*Lpost\*O, \*Lrcvdist\*O, and \*Lrcvpack\*O.
.PP
The options available along with default values and a description of their
meanings are listed below:
.\"
.TP 10
\*Llocalname:\*O
The host name that \*(MA considers local.
If not set,
.\" depending on the version of ULTRIX you are running,
\*(MA will query the system for this value
(for example: gethostname\*O).
This has no equivalent in the MH configuration file.
.\"
.TP 10
\*Lsystemname:\*O
The name of the local host in the UUCP \*(lqdomain\*(rq.
If not set,
.\" depending on the version of ULTRIX you are running,
\*(MA will query the system for this value.
This has no equivalent in the MH configuration file.
.\"
.TP
\*Lservers:\*O
A host or list of hosts running \*Lsendmail\*O can be specified.
When an MH program is run, it uses this entry to search for a central
\*Lsendmail\*O to connect to.
This is particularly useful for workstation users who may not have
\*Lsendmail\*O running on their workstation.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" *****************************************************
.\" pophost stuff commented out - not supported for X.400
.\" *****************************************************
.\"
.\" .TP
.\" pophost:
.\" The host on which you have a remote maildrop set up.
.\" Mail can be delivered to a remote host and collected
.\" using the
.\" \*Linc\ \-source\ pop\*O
.\" command.
.\"
.\" ********************************************************************
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.TP
\*Lx400host:\*O
The name of the host where X.400 mail is delivered.
The user's mail is delivered to this host and
collected by the user agent via a network connection.
This enables users to receive X.400 mail without having
to run an X.400 MTA on their workstation.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.TP
\*Lmmdfldir: /usr/spool/mail\*O
The directory where maildrops are kept.
If this is empty, the user's home directory is used.
This overrides the \*Lmail\*O field in the MH configuration file.
.\"
.TP
\*Lmmdflfil:\*O
The name of the maildrop file in the directory where maildrops are kept.
If this is empty, the user's login name is used.
This overrides the \*Lmail\*O field in the MH configuration file.
.\"
.TP
\*Lmmdelim1: \e001\e001\e001\e001\en\*O
The beginning-of-message delimiter for maildrops.
.\"
.TP
\*Lmmdelim2: \e001\e001\e001\e001\en\*O
The end-of-message delimiter for maildrops.
.\"
.TP
\*Lmmailid: 0\*O
If non-zero, then support for MMailids in \*L/etc/passwd\*O is enabled.
Basically, the \*Lpw_gecos\*O field in the password file is of the form
.oS
My Full Name <mailid>
.oE
The \*(MA internal routines that deal with user and full names will return
\*Lmailid\*O and \*LMy Full Name\*O respectively.
.\"
.TP
\*Llockstyle: 0\*O
The locking discipline to perform.
A value of \*L0\*O or \*L4\*0 means to use \*Llockf\*O.
.\"changed in Sterling: T Wolklin
.\" if available, standard
.\"\*LBellMail\*O locking otherwise.
A value of \*L1\*O means to use \*LBellMail\*O
locking always (the name of the lock is based on the file name).
A value of \*L2\*O means to use \*LMMDF\*O
locking always (the name of the lock is based on device/inode pairs).
A value of \*L5\*O means to use \*Llockf\*O and \*LBellMail\*O.
.TP
Note that this locking is superceded by the locking set (if any) in the
\*Lrc.config\*O file. For more information, see
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O .
.\"
.TP
\*Llockldir:\*O The name of the directory for making locks.
If your system does not have the \*Lflock\*O syscall,
then this directory is used when creating locks.
If the value is empty, then the directory of the file to be locked is used.
.\"
.TP
\*Lsendmail: /usr/lib/sendmail\*O
The pathname to the \*Lsendmail\*O program.
.\"
.TP
\*Lmaildelivery: /usr/lib/mh/maildelivery\*O
The name of the system-wide default \*L\&.maildelivery\*O file.
See \*Lslocal\*O(1) for the details.
.\"
.TP
\*Leveryone: 200\*O
The highest user-id which should NOT receive mail addressed to
everyone.
.\"
.TP
\*Lnoshell: path\*O
If set, then each user-id greater than \*Leveryone\*O
that has a login shell equivalent to the given value
(for example, \*L/bin/csh\*O)
indicates that mail for \*Leveryone\*O should not be sent to them.
This is useful for handling admin, dummy, and guest logins.
.\"
.PP
A few words on locking:
MH has a flexible locking system for making locks on files.
There are two \*Lmtstailor\*O variables you should be aware of:
\*Llockstyle\*O and \*Llockldir\*O.
The first controls the method of locking:
the second says where lock files should be created.
.PP
The \*Llockstyle\*O variable can take on three values:
\*L0\*O, \*L1\*O, \*L2\*O.
A value of \*L0\*O means use the \*Lflock\*O syscall
if you are running on 4.2BSD,
otherwise use a locking style of \*L1\*O.
A value of \*L1\*O or \*L2\*O specifies that a file
should be created whose existence means \*Llocked\*O
and whose non-existence means \*Lunlocked\*O.
A value of \*L1\*O specified that the lockname is constructed
by appending \*L\&.lock\*O to the name of the file being locked.
.PP
A value of \*L2\*O says to construct the lockname
by looking at the device and inode numbers of the file being locked.
If the \*Llockldir\*O variable is not specified,
lock files will be created in the directory
where the file being locked resides.
Otherwise, lock files will be created in the directory
specified by \*Llockldir\*O.
Prior to installing MH, you should see how locking is done at your site,
and set the appropriate values.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L/usr/lib/mh/mtstailor\*O
System customization file.
.\"
.TP 10
\*L/etc/passwd\*O
System password file.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lflock\*O(2), \*Lmh_profile\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
