.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: named.boot.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/21 15:43:19 $
.\" 
...\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" 
.TH named.boot 4
.iX "named.boot file"
.iX "file" "named.boot"
.SH NAME
.PP 
\*Lnamed.boot\*O \- \*Lnamed\*O configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/etc/named.boot
.sE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
This file is the default configuration (or boot) file for the
\*Lnamed\*O server.
.PP 
The\*L named\*O daemon reads the start-up
file when the \*Lnamed\*O daemon starts and when receiving signal SIGHUP.
.PP 
The records in the \*Lnamed.boot\*O file tell the \*Lnamed\*O daemon
what type of server it is, which domains (or zones of authority) it
has authority over, and where to get the data for initially setting
up its database.
.PP 
The name server first needs to know the root name server, which
is the authority server for the network. The root name server is established
in the \*Lnamed.boot\*O file by specifying the root server filename
(\*Lnamed.ca\*O) as the cache for this name server.
.PP 
The general format of each line in this file is as follows:
.oS
\*V
Type Domain Source
.oE
.VL
.LI "\*VType\*O"
Determines the type of information required for
the database.  The \*VType\*O field can have one of the following
values:
.VL
.LI "\*Ldomain\*O"
Indicates that the following \*VDomain\*O entry
is the name of the default domain.  When the \*Lnamed\*O daemon
receives a query with a domain or hostname that does not end with
a \*L\&.\*O (dot), the \*Lnamed\*O daemon appends the default domain
name to the queried name.
.LI "\*Lprimary\*O"
Indicates that the local \*Lnamed\*O server
is the primary name server for the domain specified in the \*VDomain\*O
field and that the \*Lnamed\*O daemon is to get the data describing
the domain from the file specified in the\*V Source\*O field.
.LI "\*Lsecondary\*O"
Indicates that the local \*Lnamed\*O server
is a secondary name server for the domain specified in the \*VDomain\*O
field and that the \*Lnamed\*O daemon is to get the data describing
the domain from one or more remote primary name servers using the
Internet address or
addresses specified in the\*V Source\*O field.
The
\*Lnamed\*O daemon tries each address in the order listed
until it successfully receives the data from one of the name servers.
.LI "\*Lcache\*O"
Indicates that the local \*Lnamed\*O server
is a caching name server for the domain specified in the \*VDomain\*O
field and that the \*Lnamed\*O daemon is to get the data describing
the domain from the file specified in the\*V Source\*O field.
.LE
.LI "\*VDomain\*O"
Specifies the domain.
.LI "\*VSource\*O"
Specifies a file containing information that describes
the domain.
.LE 
.PP 
Note that the \*Lnamed\*O daemon does not provide
other hosts with the information contained in a cache file. Cache
files are usually used for listing the name servers for domains higher
than the local domain.
.PP 
Comments in the boot file begin with a \*L;\*O (semicolon) and end at
the end of the line.
.PP 
These data files can have any name. However, for convenience in maintaining
the \*Lnamed\*O database, they are generally given names in the following
form: \*L/etc/named.\*Vextension\*O.
The general format of \*Lnamed\*O data files is described in 
\*L/etc/named\&.*\*O.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP 
The following examples show the various ways to use the \*Lnamed\*O
start-up file.
.AL
.LI
The \*L/etc/named.boot\*O file for \*Lvenus\*O, a primary name server,
contains these entries:
.oS
; Boot file for primary name server
;
; type        domin                  source file or host
domain        abc.aus.osf.com
cache         .                        /etc/named.ca
primary       abc.aus.osf.com           /etc/named.abcdata
primary       xyz.aus.osf.com           /etc/named.xyzdata
primary       201.9.192.in-addr.arpa    /etc/named.abcrev
primary       100.114.128.in-addr.arpa  /etc/named.xyzrev
primary       0.0.127.in-addr.arpa      /etc/named.local
.oE
.PP
In this example, the primary name server is \*Lvenus\*O and
the Internet address is \*L192.9.201.1\*O.
.LI
The \*L/etc/named.boot\*O file for \*Lkronos\*O,
a secondary name server, contains these entries:
.oS
; Boot file for secondary name server
;
; type        domain                  source file or host
domain        abc.aus.osf.com
cache         .                       /etc/named.ca
secondary     abc.aus.osf.com          192.9.201.1 192.9.201.2
secondary     xyz.aus.osf.com          192.9.201.1 192.9.201.2
secondary     201.9.192.in-addr.arpa   192.9.201.1 192.9.201.2
secondary     100.114.128.in-addr.arpa 192.9.201.1 192.9.201.2
primary       0.0.127.in-addr.arpa     /etc/named.local
.oE
.PP
In this example the secondary name server is \*Lkronos\*O and
the Internet address is 192.9.201.2.
.LI
The \*L/etc/named.boot\*O file for \*Lhera\*O,
a cache-only name server, contains these entries:
.oS
; Boot file for cache only server
;
; type        domain                  source file or host
domain        abc.aus.osf.com
cache         .                      /etc/named.ca
primary       0.0.127.in-addr.arpa    /etc/named.local
.oE
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands: \*Lnamed\*O(8)
.PP 
Files: \*Lnamed.*\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
