.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: netgroup.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/17 19:12:59 $
.\"
.TH netgroup 4
.SH NAME
\*Lnetgroup\*O \- List of network groups
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "netgroup file" "format"
.\".NXA "exports file" "netgroup file"
.\".NXA "exports file" "hosts file"
.\".NXA "netgroup file" "getnetgrent subroutine"
.iX "network group" "defining"
The \*Lnetgroup\*O file defines network-wide groups
used for permission checking when doing
remote mounts, remote logins, and remote shells.
For remote mounts, the information in the
\*Lnetgroup\*O file is used to classify machines;
for remote logins and remote shells,
it is used to classify users.
Each line of the \*Lnetgroup\*O file defines a group and
has the following format:
.PP
\*Vgroupname member_1 ... member_n\*O
.PP
Each member can be either another group name or a combination
of the host name, user name, and domain name in the following format:
.PP
(\*Vhostname, username, domainname\*O)
.PP
Any of the three fields can be empty, in which case a wildcard is assumed.
For example, to define a group to which everyone belongs, the following entry
could appear in the \*Lnetgroup\*O file:
.oS
universal (,,)
.oE
.PP
Field names that begin with something other
than a letter, digit, or underscore
(such as ``-'') work in the opposite way.
For example:
.oS
justmachines (analytica,-,suez)
justpeople (-,babbage,suez)
.oE
.PP
The machine
\*Vanalytica\*O
belongs to the group
\*Vjustmachines\*O
in the domain
\*Vsuez,\*O
but no users belong to it.
Similarly, the user
\*Vbabbage\*O
belongs to the group
\*Vjustpeople\*O
in the domain
\*Vsuez,\*O
but no machines belong to it.
.PP
Network groups are part of the NIS database
and are accessed through these files:
.PP
.nf
\*L/etc/yp/\*Vdomainname\*L/netgroup.dir\*O
\*L/etc/yp/\*Vdomainname\*L/netgroup.pag\*O
\*L/etc/yp/\*Vdomainname\*L/netgroup.byuser.dir\*O
\*L/etc/yp/\*Vdomainname\*L/netgroup.byuser.pag\*O
\*L/etc/yp/\*Vdomainname\*L/netgroup.byhost.dir\*O
\*L/etc/yp/\*Vdomainname\*L/netgroup.byhost.pag\*O
.fi
.PP
These files can be created from \*L/etc/netgroup\*O using \*Lmakedbm\*O(8).
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/etc/netgroup
.br
\*L/etc/yp/\*Vdomainname\*L/netgroup.dir\*O
.br
\*L/etc/yp/\*Vdomainname\*L/netgroup.pag\*O
.br
\*L/etc/yp/\*Vdomainname\*L/netgroup.byuser.dir\*O
.br
\*L/etc/yp/\*Vdomainname\*L/netgroup.byuser.pag\*O
.br
\*L/etc/yp/\*Vdomainname\*L/netgroup.byhost.dir\*O
.br
\*L/etc/yp/\*Vdomainname\*L/netgroup.byhost.pag\*O
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lgetnetgrent\*O(3), \*Lmakedbm\*O(8), \*Lypserv\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
