.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: netrc.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 17:02:37 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
.\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail 
.\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH netrc 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lnetrc\*O, \*L.netrc\*O \- Specifies automatic login information for \*Lftp\*O
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L$HOME/.netrc\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "\&.netrc file"
.iX "files" "\&.netrc"
.iX "autologin"
.iX "login" "automatic"
.iX "automatic login"
.PP
The \*L\&.netrc\*O file contains the information used by the automatic login
(autologin) feature of the
\*Lftp\*O command.  It is a hidden
file in your home directory and must be owned by the user logging in, or
by the root user.   If the \*L\&.netrc\*O file contains a
login password, the file's permissions must be set to 600 (read and
write by owner only).
.PP
The \*L\&.netrc\*O file can
contain the following entries (separated by spaces,
tabs, or newlines):
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lmachine\*O \*Vhost\*O"
Where \*Vhost\*O is the name of a remote host.  This entry
begins the definition of the autologin process for the specified host.
All following entries up to the next \*Lmachine\*O entry or the end
of the file apply to that host.
.LI "\*Ldefault\*O"
This is the same as \*Lmachine\*O, except that
\*Ldefault\*O matches any name.  There can be only one default token,
and it must appear after all machine tokens.  This is
normally used as follows:
.iS
default login anonymous \*Vpassword\*O \*Vuser\*L@\*Vsite\*O
.iE
The preceding command line gives
the user automatic anonymous \*Lftp\*O login to
machines not specified in \*L\&.netrc\*O.  This can be overriden
by using the \*L-n\*O flag to disable autologin.
.LI "\*Llogin\*O \*Vuser\*O"
Where \*Vuser\*O is the username to use at the remote
host.  If this entry is found, the autologin process initiates a login
using the specified name.  If this entry is missing, the autologin
process fails.
.LI "\*Lpassword\*O \*Vpassword\*O"
Where \*Vpassword\*O is the login password to be used.
The autologin process supplies this password to the remote server.
A login password must be established at the remote host and that
password must be entered in this file, or the autologin process fails
and you are prompted for the login password.
.LI "\*Laccount\*O \*Vpassword\*O"
Where \*Vpassword\*O is the account password to be used.  If this
entry is found and an account password is required at the remote host, the
autologin process supplies the password to the remote server.  If the
remote host requires an account password but this entry is missing, the
autologin process prompts for the account password.
.LI "\*Lmacdef\*O \*Vmacro\*O"
Where \*Vmacro\*O is the name of an \*Lftp\*O
subcommand macro.  The macro definition starts on the following line
and is defined to contain all of the following
\*Lftp\*O subcommands up to the
next blank line.  If the macro is named
\*Linit\*O, \*Lftp\*O executes the macro upon successful completion of
the autologin process.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 7m
.LI "\*L$HOME/.netrc\*O"
Contains automatic login information.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lftp\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
