.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: networks.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/02/01 13:58:31 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH networks 4
.SH NAME
\*Lnetworks\*O \- Contains network name information
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/etc/networks
.sE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
The \*Lnetworks\*O file contains information about the known
networks that comprise the DARPA
(Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency) Internet. Each
network is represented by a single line in the \*Lnetworks\*O file.
The format for the entries in the \*Lnetworks\*O file is as follows:
.iS
\*VName Number Aliases
.iE
.PP 
The fields contain the following:
.VL
.LI "\*VName\*O"
The official network name.
.LI "\*VNumber\*O"
The network number.
.LI "\*VAliases\*O"
The unofficial names used for the network.
.LE 
.PP 
Items on a line are separated by one or more spaces
or tab characters.  Comments begin with a \*L#\*O (number sign).  
Routines that search
the \*Lnetworks\*O file do not interpret characters from the beginning
of a comment to the end of that line.  Network numbers are specified
in dotted-decimal notation.  A network name can contain any printable
character except a field delimiter, newline character, or comment
character (\*L#\*O).
.PP 
The \*Lnetworks\*O file is normally created from the official
network database maintained at the Network Information Center
(NIC).  The file may
need to be modified locally to include unofficial aliases or unknown
networks.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands: \*Lrouted\*O(8)
.PP 
Functions: \*Lgetnetbyaddr\*O(3), \*Lgetnetbyname\*O(3). \*Lgetnetent\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
