.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Old.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 16:26:02 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
.\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail 
.\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH Old 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*LOld\*O, \*L.Old\*O \- Contains the combined \*Luucp\*O program log files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Old
.sE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "Old" "uucp log files"
.iX "uucp" "log files"
The \*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Old\*O directory contains the combined
\*Luucp\*O program log files.
The \*Luucp\*O program creates log files of the activities of the
\*Luucico\*O and \*Luuxqt\*O daemons in the \*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Log\*O
directory.  The log files are compacted by the
\*L/usr/lib/uucp/uudemon.cleanu\*O command,
a shell procedure, which combines the files and stores them in the \*L.Old\*O
directory.
.PP
By default, the \*Luudemon.cleanu\*O command removes log files
after 2 weeks.  The length of time log files are kept can be changed
to suit the needs of an individual system.
The log files can be viewed using the \*Luulog\*O command.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Daemons: \*Lcron\*O(8), \*Luucico\*O(8)
.\", \*Luuxqt\*O(8)
.PP
.\"Begin Digital correction.
Commands: \*Luucp\*O(1), \*Luudemon.cleanu\*O(4), \*Luulog\*O(1), \*Luux\*O(1)
.\"End Digital correction.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
