.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: passwd.4,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.8 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:25:03 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)passwd.5	6.6 (Berkeley) 6/23/90
.\" 
.TH passwd 4
.SH NAME
\*Lpasswd\*O \- Password files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "passwd" "password files"
.iX "files" "password"
.PP
A
\*Lpasswd\*O
file is a file consisting of records separated by newline characters,
one record per user,
containing seven colon (:) separated fields.  These fields are as
follows:
.PP
.VL
.LI "name"
User's login name
.LI "password"
User's encrypted password
.LI "uid"
User's ID
.LI "gid"
User's login group ID
.LI "gecos"
General information about the user
.LI "home_dir"
User's home directory
.LI "shell"
User's login shell
.LE
.PP
The
\*Vname\*O
field is the login used to access the computer account, and the
\*Vuid\*O
field is the number associated with it.  They should both be unique
across the system (and often across a group of systems) since they
control file access.
.PP
While it is possible to have multiple entries with identical login names
and/or identical user gid's, it is usually a mistake to do so.  Routines
that manipulate these files will often return only one of the multiple
entries, and that one by random selection.
.PP
The login name must never begin with a hyphen (-); also, it is strongly
suggested that neither uppercase characters or dots (.) be part
of the name, as this tends to confuse mailers.  No field may contain a
colon (:) as this has been used historically to separate the fields
in the user database.
.PP
The password field is the
encrypted
form of the password.
If the
\*Vpassword\*O
field is empty, no password is required to gain access to the
machine.
Because these files contain the encrypted user passwords, they should
not be readable by anyone without appropriate privileges.
.NT "Security Note"
If you have enhanced security installed on your system,
the password field is as follows:
.sp
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
The password field contains an asterisk (*). The encrypted password
is stored in the user's protected password database.
.\" #else
.\" #endif SEC_BASE
.NE
.PP
The \*Vgid\*O field is the group that the user will be placed in upon login.
Since the operating system supports multiple groups (see the
\*Lgroups\*O
command)
this field currently has little special meaning.
.PP
The
\*Vgecos\*O
field normally contains comma (,) separated subfields as follows:
.PP
.\"from TP 1.25i"  
.VL
.LI "name"
User's full name
.\"from TP "  
.LI "office"
User's office number
.\"from TP "  
.LI "wphone"
User's work phone number
.\"from TP "  
.LI "hphone"
User's home phone number
.LE
.PP
This information is used by the
\*Lfinger\*O
command.
.PP
The user's home directory is the full UNIX pathname where the user
will be placed on login.
.PP
The
\*Vshell\*O
field is the command interpreter the user prefers.
If the
\*Vshell\*O
field is empty, the Bourne shell (\*L/bin/sh\*O) is assumed.
.PP
The allowable values for the UID are unsigned numbers
from 0 to 65535.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
root:TZVtfX5VbS3KY:0:1:System PRIVILEGED Account,,,:/:/bin/sh
adm:*:5:16:Admin Login:/usr/adm:/bin/sh
operator:HdgoklKwZOlvU:25:28:System PRIVILEGED Account,,,:/etc/operator:
guest:Nologin:-2:-2:anonymous NFS user:/:/bin/date
osfuser:If2eoZ6gmghJo:50002:15:Osf User:/usr/users/osfuser:/bin/csh
marcy:*:201:20:Marcy Swanson,dev,x1234:/usr/users/marcy:/bin/sh
.oE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetpwent\*O(3)
.PP
Commands:
\*Llogin\*O(1),
\*Lpasswd\*O(1)
.iX "passwd" "password files"
.\" NON_SILVER
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
.PP
Files:
\*Lprpwd\*O(4)
.\" #endif SEC_BASE
.EQ
delim off
.EN
