.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Permissions.4,v $ $Revision: 1.1.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/17 18:37:50 $
.\"
.\"
.TH Permissions 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*LPermissions\*O \- Contains information about the permissions that remote computers have with respect to login, file access, and command execution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Permissions\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "Permissions" "uucp permissions information"
The \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Permissions\*O file contains information about the ways in
which the remote computers listed in the \*LSystems\*O file are allowed to carry
out \*Luucico\*O and \*Luuxqt\*O transactions with a local system.
.PP
Be aware that entries in a \*LPermissions\*O file do not affect a remote system
user with a valid login on the local computer.
.PP
Note that you must have root user authority to edit the \*LPermissions\*O
file, which is owned by the \*Luucp\*O login ID.
.PP
The \*LPermissions\*O file has two types of entries:
.ML
.LI
\*LLOGNAME\*O specifies the permissions that take effect when a remote system
logs in. These entries begin with \*LLOGNAME\*O.
.LI
\*LMACHINE\*O specifies permissions that take effect when your system calls a
remote system. These entries begin with \*LMACHINE\*O.
.LE
.PP
Both type of entries consist of option-value pairs. You can have as many of
these option-value pairs as you want and can write entries for all or only
some of the remote sites.
.SS Options
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LREQUEST\*O"
Specifies whether the remote system can request to set up file
transfers from your system. The default is not to allow such requests. This
option can be used in either \*LLOGNAME\*O or \*LMACHINE\*O entries.
.br
.ne 6P
.LI "\*LSENDFILES\*O"
Specifies whether your system can send the work queued for the
remote system when the remote system initiates the call. The default is
\*Lcall\*O; that is, the queued files are sent only when the local system calls
the remote system. This option is used in \*LLOGNAME\*O entries.
.LI "\*LREAD\*O"
Specifies from which directories \*Luucico\*O can read. The default
is the \*L/usr/spool/uucppublic\*O directory. This option can be used in
either \*LLOGNAME\*O or \*LMACHINE\*O entries. If multiple pathnames are
specified, separate them with a colon (:).
.LI "\*LWRITE\*O"
Specifies to which directories \*Luucico\*O can write. The default
is the \*L/usr/spool/uucpublic\*O directory. This option can be used in either
\*LLOGNAME\*O or \*LMACHINE\*O entries. If multiple pathnames are specified,
separate them with a colon (:).
.LI "\*LNOREAD\*O and \*LNOWRITE\*O"
Specify exceptions to the \*LREAD\*O and
\*LWRITE\*O options. These options can be used in either \*LLOGNAME\*O or
\*LMACHINE\*O entries. If multiple pathnames are specified, separate them
with a colon (:).
.LI "\*LCOMMANDS\*O"
Specifies the commands that a remote system can request to be
executed on the local system. The default is \*Lrmail\*O command. If multiple
commands are specified, separate them with a colon(:). This option is used in
\*LMACHINE\*O entries.
.LI "\*LCALLBACK\*O"
Specifies whether any transactions can occur without the local
system calling the remote system. The default is \*Lno\*O, that is, the local
system must initiate the call to the remote system before any transactions are
allowed. If both the remote and local systems use \*LCALLBACK\*O, they will not
be able to initiate any jobs. This option can be used in \*LLOGNAME\*O entries.
.LI "\*LVALIDATE\*O"
Used to verify the calling system's identity. The values for
this option should be the system name or the names of systems allowed to
log in using the name specified by \*LLOGNAME\*O. If a system other than
those specified in \*LVALIDATE\*O tries to use the name specified by
\*LLOGNAME\*O, the connection will be refused. If multiple systems are
specified, separate them with a colon (:). This option is used with the
\*LLOGNAME\*O entries.
.LE
.SS Rules for Writing Permissions File Entries
The following rules apply for writing \*LPermissions\*O file entries:
.ML
.LI
Each option-value pair has the following format:
.sS
\*Voption\*O=\*Vvalue\*O
.sE
.IP
Blank spaces are not allowed before or after the equal sign.
.LI
A blank space is used to separate option-value pairs. If an option has one
or more values, the values are separated with a colon.
.LI
Comment lines begin with a number sign (#) and end with a new line.
.LI
The backslash (\\) is used as a continuation character to continue a line on
to the next line on the screen.
.LI
Blank lines are ignored.
.LI
All login IDs used by remote systems must appear in one and only one
\*LLOGNAME\*O entry.
.LI
If you do not want to grant permissions to each system by name, the entry
\*LMACHINE=OTHER\*O will assign permissions to any system not mentioned by name.
.LI
You can combine \*LMACHINE\*O and \*LLOGNAME\*O entries into a single entry
if the options are the same.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
The following example allows remote system \*Lbuck\*O to log in with login ID
\**Luucp1\*O. The \*LVALIDATE\*O option means that the login ID
\*Luucp1\*O can only be used by remote system \*Lbuck\*O.
The \*LREQUEST\*O option means that remote system \*Lbuck\*O
can request files to be transferred from the local system.
The \*LSENDFILES\*O option means that any requests queued on the local
system for work on the remote system will be sent to the remote system
during the current session if allowed by remote system \*Lbuck\*O.
The \*LREAD\*O and \*LWRITE\*O options mean that remote system can
read and write from and to any directory that has proper permissions.
.sp
.iS
LOGNAME=uucp1 REQUEST=yes SENDFILES=yes \\
VALIDATE=buck READ=/ WRITE=/ MACHINE=buck \\
REQUEST=yes COMMANDS=ALL READ=/ WRITE=/
.iE
.LI
The following example has all the default values of the options, which
are as follows:
.ML
.LI
\*LREQUEST=no\*O,
.LI
\*LSENDFILES=call\*O
.LI
\*LREAD\*O and \*LWRITE=/usr/spool/uucppublic\*O
.LI
\*LCOMMANDS=rmail\*O
.LI
\*LCALLBACK=no\*O
.LE
.IP
The remote system cannot ask to receive any queued files
containing work that users on the local system have requested to be
executed on the remote system. The local system cannot send queued work to
the remote system when that system has completed its current operations.
Instead, the queued work can be sent only when the local system contacts the
remote system. The remote system can send (write) files to and transfer
(read) files from only the uucp public directory
(\*L/usr/spool/uucppublic/\*O\*Vsystem_name\*O) on the local system.
Users on the remote system can execute only the default command (\*Lrmail\*O)
on the local system.
.iS
.sp
LOGNAME=uucp2
MACHINE=buck:bigguy
.iE
.LI
The following example is similar to the first. However, this entry allows the
remote users of systems \*Lwaldo\*O and \*Lbuck\*O to execute only the
\*Lrmail\*O and \*L/usr/lbin/rnews\*O commands:
.iS
.sp
LOGNAME=uucp3 VALIDATE=waldo:buck REQUEST=yes \\
SENDFILES=yes READ=/ WRITE=/ \\
MACHINE=waldo:buck REQUEST=yes \\
COMMANDS=rmail:/usr/lbin/rnews READ=/ WRITE=\\
.iE
.LI
The following example specifies that all remote systems using the
\*Luucp4\*O login ID that are not included in existing \*LMACHINE\*O
entries can execute the \*Lrmail\*O (mail) and \*L/usr/bin/lint\*O
commands on the local system:
.iS
.sp
LOGNAME=uucp4
MACHINE=OTHER COMMANDS=rmail:/usr/bin/lint
.iE
.LI
The following example shows how the \*LMACHINE\*O and \*LLOGNAME\*O entry can
be combined into one entry. The remote host is \*Ldarla\*O. The remote system
\*Ldarla\*O should use the login ID \*Lxuucp\*O to log in to local system. The
rest of the options have the same meaning as explained in the first
example.
.iS
.sp
MACHINE=darla LOGNAME=xuucp READ=/ WRITE=/ \\
REQUEST=yes SENDFILES=yes
.iE
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/*\*O"
Contains all the configuration files for the UNIX-to-UNIX Copy Program
(UUCP), including the \*LDevices\*O file.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O"
Describes accessible remote systems.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Files: \*LSystems\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
