.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\"           Reference Page RSML Coding Template 
.\" 
.\"  This template is intended as a coding aid for writers producing
.\"  reference pages with RSML macros.  
.\"
.\"  To format reference pages, 
.\"  you can use the following command on ravine (only):
.\"  
.\"    bman -b|-o  -n|-p  filename
.\"    
.\"  where:
.\"         -b or -o 
.\"         Indicates the SCCS directory ("bsd" or "osf")
.\"         from which the reference page was checked out for edit.
.\"
.\"         -n or -p
.\"         Indicates the format ("nroff" or "PostScript") in
.\"         which you want an output file.
.\"
.\"  For example, the following command produces the file find.1.nr
.\"  in your default directory:
.\"
.\"         % bman -o -n find.1
.\"
.\" *** MIPS Information ***
.\"
.\" If there is MIPS-specific information included on a manpage,
.\" set it off with conditional coding:
.\"
.\" #ifdef MIPS
.\"
.\" End the MIPS-specific information with this line:
.\"
.\" #endif
.\" 
.\" Be sure the "#ifdef MIPS" and "#endif" are flush with the
.\" left margin, and that each is on a line by itself.
.\" 
.\" **********************
.\"
.\" NOTE:  Do NOT include any copyright notice in your manpage unless
.\"        you have taken the information from another source, such
.\"        as the OSF.  
.\"
.\"        Do NOT include .so lines for the RSML and SML macro packages.
.\"
.\" **********************
.\"         
.\"  The path to this template is:
.\"
.\"	ravine:/usr/public/RefPage_Template_RSML
.\"   
.\" - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
.\"	
.TH phones 4
.iX "phones file"
.iX "files" "phones"
.\"  Substitute the appropriate section number (including suffix,
.\"  if any) for n. 
.\" 
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lphones\*O \- File containing the remote host phone number database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/etc/phones\*O
.sE
.PP
The \*L/etc/phones\*O file contains the system-wide private phone numbers
for the \*Ltip\*O(1) program.
.\" Always include at least one index entry, such as the following one,
.\" that names the command, function, or file; 
.\" additional index entries are strongly recommended.
.\"
.\" Commands
.\"
.\" .sS
.\" \*Lcommand\*O [\*L-abc\*O] \*Vargument\*O
.\"
.\" You can put elements that are separated by spaces on separate
.\" lines if you prefer.  You must specify the .nL or .PP macro,
.\" however, when you want a line break to part of the output.
.\"
.\" .PP
.\" The preceding .PP macro is included here only to separate output
.\" of SYNOPSIS examples (commands vs routines) in this template.
.\" 
.\" System calls and routines
.\"
.\" \*L#include <file.h>
.\" .nL
.\" datatype routine-name (
.\" .nL
.\"         type \*Varg1\*L,
.\" .nL
.\"         type \*Varg2\*L,
.\" .nL
.\"         type \*Vfinal-arg \*L);\*O
.\" .SH FLAGS
.\" .PP
.\" .VL 4m
.\" .LI "\*L-a\*O"
.\" Description of the -a option.
.\" .PP
.\" The .PP macro may cause problems inside lists.
.\" .LI "\*L-b\*O"
.\" Description of the -b option.
.\" .LI "\*L-lastone\*O"
.\" Description of -lastone option.
.\" .LE
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\" The \*L/etc/phones\*O file contains the system-wide 
.\" private phone numbers for the \*Ltip\*O(1) program.
This file is normally unreadable, and so may
contain privileged information.  The format of the file is a series of
lines of the form:
.iS
\*Vsystemname\*O   \*Vphone-number\*O
.iE
.PP
where \*Vsystemname\*O is defined in the \*L/etc/remote\*O file
and \*Vphone-number\*O is the system phone number terminated only
by a comma or by the end of the line.  
Only one phone number per line is permitted.  However, if more than one
line in the file contains the same system name, \*Ltip\*O will attempt to dial
each one in turn, until it establishes a connection.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example shows the entry in \*L/etc/phones\*O for the
system, \*Lzeus\*O:
.iS
zeus              9=555-9898
.iE
.PP
In this example, the \*L=\*O sign (or an asterisk) forces the autocall
units to pause and wait for a second dial tone, when going through an
exchange.  The \*L=\*O is required by the DF02-AC (an asterisk would
be required by the BIZCOMP 1030). 
.\"
.\" .SH FILES
.\" .PP
.\" .VL 11m
.\" .LI "\*L/file1\*O"
.\" Short description of file1.
.\" .LI "\*L/path/file2\*O"
.\" Short description of file 2.
.\" .LE
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Ltip\*O(1).
.\" .PP
.\" Functions: \*Lfunction-name\*O(2).
.PP
Files: \*Lremote\*O(4).
.\" .PP
.\" 
.\"
.\" The term surrounded by the double percent signs (%\&%\&) is an
.\" STREP book title tag.  It is OK to refer to user guides;
.\" however, refer to specific reference pages rather than to
.\" an entire reference manual.  Furthermore, do not
.\" refer to specific chapters in books.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
