.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Poll.4,v $ $Revision: 1.1.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/10 18:04:43 $
.\"
.TH Poll 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*LPoll\*O \- Contains information specifying when the UNIX-to-UNIX Copy Program (UUCP) should poll designated remote computers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Poll\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "Poll" "uucp polling information"
The \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Poll\*O file contains information for polling remote
computers. Each entry in the \*LPoll\*O file contains the name of a remote
computer to call, followed by a <TAB> character, and a sequence of hourly
intervals expressed in digits. These are the hourly intervals at which the
local system polls a remote system; you must specify interval times as digits
between 0 and 23. The format of entries in the \*LPoll\*O file is:
.sS
\*Lsys-name<TAB>\*Vhour\*O
.sE
.PP
Note that you must be logged in as root to edit the \*LPoll\*O file,
which is owned by the \*Luucp\*O login ID.
.PP
The \*LPoll\*O file is used with the \*Lcrontabs/uucp\*O file, the
\*Luudemon.hour\*O script, and the \*Luudemon.poll\*O script.
Together, these files are responsible for
initiating automatic calls to remote systems to perform certain maintenance
tasks.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
The following example provides polling of computer \*Leagle\*O every 4 hours:
.sS
\*Leagle	0 4 8 12 16 20\*O
.sE
.LI
The follwing example provides polling of computer \*Lhera\*O every hour:
.sS
\*Lhera	0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23\*O
.sE
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/*\*O"
Contains all the configuration files for UUCP,
including the \*LDevices\*O file.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O"
Describes accessible remote systems.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/uudemon.hour\*O"
Initiates file transport calls to remote systems.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/uudemon.poll\*O"
Polls remote systems listed in \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Poll\*O file.
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/cron/crontabs/uucp\*O"
The \*Luucp\*O file that contains instructions for the \*Lcron\*O daemon.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lcrontab\*O(1)
.PP
Daemons: \*Lcron\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
