.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: prestotab.4,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/17 19:19:50 $
.\"
.TH prestotab 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lprestotab\*O \- Lists the file systems for Prestoserve to accelerate
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/etc/prestotab\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "prestotab file"
The \*L/etc/prestotab\*O file contains descriptive information about the
mounted file systems whose I/O will be automatically
accelerated with Prestoserve when the system starts up.
This file is created by the \*Lprestosetup\*O
command, which prompts you for the file systems to automatically accelerate
when the system starts up.  You can also manually create the file.
.PP
The \*L/etc/rc.config\*O file contains variables that specify the Prestoserve
configuration.
If you configure Prestoserve to automatically accelerate file systems
when the system starts up, the Prestoserve startup script
(\*L/sbin/init.d/presto\*O) accelerates
the mounted file systems that are specified in the
\*L/etc/prestotab\*O file or, if the file is empty or does not exist,
all the local writable file systems that are currently mounted.
.PP
The \*L/etc/prestotab\*O file contains a list of directory
mount points (for example, \*L/usr/users\*O).
Block devices should not be included because some functional subsystems,
such as the Advanced File System (advfs), can map more than one block
device to a mount point.
.PP
Entries in the \*L/etc/prestotab\*O file must be separated by spaces
or must be located on separate lines.  You cannot specify
comments in the file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
An example of the \*L/etc/prestotab\*O file is as follows:
.oS
/usr/users/disk1
/usr/users/disk2
/var/spool
.oE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/etc/prestotab\*O"
File pathname.
.LE
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lpresto\*O(8), \*Lprestosetup\*O(8).
.PP
\*EGuide to Prestoserve\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
