.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: printcap.4,v $ $Revision: 3.5.8.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/15 19:04:57 $
.\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
...\" @(#)printcap.4 Copyright OSF October 1990
...\"
.TH printcap 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lprintcap\*O \- Printer capability data base
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/etc/printcap\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "printcap file"
.iX "printers" "description of"
The \*Lprintcap\*O file is used to describe printer characteristics.
The format of the \*Lprintcap\*O file is a simplified version of the
\*L/etc/termcap\*O database format.
.PP
The \*Llpd\*O line printer daemon accesses
the \*L/etc/printcap\*O file every time a file is passed to the spooler for
printing. The print spooling system uses the \*Lprintcap\*O file to
obtain information about each printer attached to the system and about
remote printers.  Each entry in the \*Lprintcap\*O
file describes a single printer.
.\" What does this mean:
.\" This database may not
.\" be substituted as is possible with the \*L/etc/termcap\*O file because
.\" its substitution could cause printer accounting to be bypassed.
.PP
When the local line printer driver supports indentation, the \*Llpd\*O line
printer daemon must understand how to invoke this capability.
.PP
The default printer for your system usually has the device reference \*Llp\*O,
although environment variable \*LPRINTER\*O can be used to override
the default printer reference.
The print commands (for example, \*Llpr\*O, \*Llpq\*O, and \*Llprm\*O)
support the \*L\-P\*Vprinter\*O option, which enables you to specify a
specific printer.
.iX "default" "printer reference"
.iX "environment variable" "PRINTER"
.SS "Printer Characteristic Symbols"
Each printer has various characteristics
that tells the \*Llpd\*O line printer daemon how to
communicate with the printing device defined in the \*L/dev\*O
directory. The following table lists the printer characteristic
symbols.
.VL
.LI "\*LName\*O"
2-character mnemonic used to define the parameter. The parameter must
be specified exactly as it appears in this column.
.LI "\*LType\*O"
Type of data expressed by the entry
as \*Lstr\*O, \*Lnum\*O, or \*Lbool\*O.  When the parameter you define
is referenced as a string variable (\*Lstr\*O) in the \*LType\*O
column, it must be followed by an \*L=\*O (equal sign) together with
the string; when you do not define the string parameter, it remains a
\*LNULL\*O string and contains no data or it takes the value specified
in the \*LDefault\*O column.  When the \*LType\*O column defines a
parameter type as \*Lbool\*O, it may only be logically \*Ltrue\*O
(yes) or logically \*Lfalse\*O (no).
.sp
When the parameter you define is a numerical variable, it must be
followed with a \*L#\*O (pound sign) together with the numerical value
you assign; when you do not define the numerical parameter it takes
the value specified in the \*LDefault\*O column of the table.
.LI "\*LDescription\*O"
The following is an example of a printcap entry:
.sp
.nf
.po -.3i
.ps -2
myprinter|lp0:\
.br
        :af=/usr/adm/lpacct:\
.br
        :br#9600:\
.br
        :ct=dev:\
.br
        :fc#0177777:\
.br
        :fs#023:\
.br
        :if=/usr/lbin/la75of:\
.br
        :lf=/usr/adm/lperr:\
.br
        :lp=/dev/tty00:\
.br
        :mx#0:\
.br
        :of=/usr/lbin/la75of:\
.br
        :pl#66:\
.br
        :pw#80:\
.br
        :sd=/usr/spool/lpd:\
.br
        :xc#0177777:\
.br
        :xf=/usr/lbin/xf:\
.br
        :xs#044000:
.fi
.ps +2
.po +.3i
.sp
Entries can continue onto multiple lines by giving a \e as the last
character of a line.  Empty fields can be included for readability (here
between the last field on a line and the first field on the next).
.sp
Comments can be included on lines beginning with the pound sign
(#).
.LE
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Also added some text diversions per Craig Kosak.
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB lfHB
l l l lw(3i).
Name@Type@Default@Description
.sp
_
af@str@NULL@name of accounting file
br@num@none@T{
If lp is a tty, set the baud rate (ioctl call)
T}
cf@str@NULL@The cifplot data filter
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
ct@str@dev@T{
Connection type.  Only valid when up=psv4.0. (Choices
are: dev, LAT, and remote.  (Required for LAT printers.)
T}
.\" Added information from John Derzinski in response to QAR 8989
ct@str@LAT@T{
remote printing using LAT as the transport
T}
.\" End Digital-specific information
df@str@NULL@The tex data filter (DVI format)
fc@num@0@T{
If lp is a tty, clear flag bits (sgtty.h)
T}
ff@str@\ef@String to send for a form feed
fo@bool@false@Print a form feed when device is opened
fs@num@0@Like fc, but set bits
gf@str@NULL@The graph data filter (plot format)
hl@bool@false@Print the burst header page last
ic@bool@false@T{
Driver supports (non standard) ioctl to indent printout
T}
if@str@NULL@Name of text filter that does accounting
lf@str@/dev/console@Error logging filename
lo@str@lock@Name of lock file
lp@str@/dev/lp@T{
Device name to open for output  (Required for LAT and remote
printers.)
T}
mx@num@1000@T{
Maximum file size (in BUFSIZ blocks), zero = unlimited
T}
nf@str@NULL@T{
The ditroff data filter (device independent troff)
T}
of@str@NULL@Name of output filtering program
pl@num@66@Page length (in lines)
pw@num@132@Page width (in characters)
px@num@0@Page width in pixels (horizontal)
py@num@0@Page length in pixels (vertical)
rf@str@NULL@T{
Filter for printing FORTRAN style text files
T}
rm@str@NULL@T{
Machine name for remote printer (Required for remote printers.)
T}
rp@str@lp@T{
Remote printer name argument (Required for remote printers.)
T}
rs@bool@false@Restrict remote users to those with local accounts
rw@bool@false@T{
Open the printer device for reading and writing
T}
sb@bool@false@Short banner (one line only)
sc@bool@false@Suppress multiple copies
sd@str@/usr/spool/lpd@T{
Spool directory  (Required for LAT and remote printers.)
T}
sf@bool@false@Suppress form feeds
sh@bool@false@Suppress printing of burst page header
st@str@status@Status filename
tf@str@NULL@T{
The troff data filter (cat phototypesetter)
T}
tr@str@NULL@T{
Trailer string to print when queue empties
T}
vf@str@NULL@The raster image filter
xc@num@0@T{
If lp is a tty, clear local mode bits (tty)
T}
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
xf@str@NULL@Pass-through filter
.\" End Digital-specific information
xs@num@0@Like xc, but set bits
.TE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP
When the local line printer driver supports indentation, the \*Llpd\*O line
printer daemon must understand how to invoke this capability.
.\" Begin  Digital-specific information
.\" Added information from John Derzinski in response to QAR 8989
.SS LAT Printing Characteristics
The following table lists the LAT printing characteristics:
.TS
tab(@);
lb lb lb lb
l l l l.
Name@Type@Default@Description
.sp
_
cd@str@LAT@Remote printing using LAT as the
@@@transport
lp@str@/dev/ttyWX@T{
Device name to open for output where WX is a LAT device
T}
.TE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SS "Filter and Flags"
The \*Llpd\*O line printer daemon creates a pipeline of
\*Lfilters\*O to process files for various different printer device.
The filters you select depend on the flags that are passed to the
\*Llpr\*O command. The pipeline set up is:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lb lb lb
lb lb l.
Flag@Filter@Description
.sp
_
none@if@regular text
\-p@pr | if@regular text + \*Lpr\*O
\-c@cf@\*Lcifplot\*O
\-d@df@DVI (\*Ltex\*O)
\-g@gf@\*Lplot\*O
\-n@nf@\*Lditroff\*O
\-f@rf@FORTRAN
\-t@tf@\*Ltroff\*O
\-v@vf@raster image
.TE
.PP
The \*Lif\*O filter is invoked with arguments:
.iS
\*Lif\*O  [\*L\-c\*O]  \*L\-w\*Vwidth\*O  \*L\-l\*Vlength\*O \*L\-i\*Vindent\*O  \*L\-n\*Vlogin\*O  \*L\-h\*Vhost acct-file\*O
.iE
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
The \*Lxf\*O pass-through filter is specified when
output is preformatted and does not require special filtering.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP
The \*L\-c\*O flag is passed only when the \*L\-l\*O flag (pass
control-characters literally) is specified to the \*Llpr\*O command.
The \*L\-w\*Vwidth\*O and \*L\-l\*Vlength\*O parameters specify the page
width and
length (from the assigned or default values of \*Lpw\*O and \*Lpl\*O
respectively in the \*Lprintcap\*O file) in characters. The \*L\-n\*O
and \*L\-h\*O flags specify the login name and hostname of the
owner of the job, respectively. The \*Vacct-file\*O is passed from the
\*Laf\*O entry in the \*Lprintcap\*O file.
.PP
The \*Lif\*O filter is opened for all individual jobs, which makes it
suitable for accounting. When the
\*Lif\*O filter is not specified, the system uses the \*Lof\*O
filter as the default value. The \*Lof\*O filter however, is opened only once
and is only given the \*L\-w\*Vwidth\*O and \*L\-l\*Vlength\*O flags.
.PP
All other filters are called as:
.iS
\*Lfilter\*O \*L\-x\*Vwidth\*O \*L\-y\*Vlength\*O \*L\-n\*Vlogin\*O \*L\-h\*V host acct-file\*O
.iE
.PP
Where \*L\-x\*Vwidth\*O and \*L\-y\*Vlength\*O are represented in pixels as
specified by the \*Lpx\*O and \*Lpy\*O entries, respectively, in the
\*Lprintcap\*O file.
.PP
All filters take standard input (\*Lstdin\*O)
as the source file and standard output (\*Lstdout\*O) as the destination.
The printer may log either to standard error (\*Lstderr\*O) or use
\*Lsyslogd\*O, and must not ignore the \*LSIGINT\*O signal.
.SH ERROR LOGGING
.PP
Error messages generated by the line printer programs
(that is, the \*Llp*\*O programs)
are logged by
\*Lsyslogd\*O
using the
\*Llpr\*O
facility.
Messages printed on the
\*Lstderr\*O
of one of the filters
are sent to the corresponding
\*Llf\*O
file specified in the \*Lprintcap\*O file.
The filters may, of course, also use
\*Lsyslogd.\*O
.PP
Error messages sent to the console have a carriage return and a line
feed appended to them, rather than just a line feed.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Llpc\*O(8), \*Llpd\*O(8), \*Lpac\*O(8), \*Llpr\*O(1),
\*Llpq\*O(1), \*Llprm\*O(1),\*O \*Llprsetup\*O(8)\*O
.PP
Files:  \*Ltermcap\*O(4)
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Added per John Derzinski.
Manuals:
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
.\" End Digital-specific information
.EQ
delim off
.EN
