.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: procset.4,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/10 19:04:07 $
.\"
.TH procset 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lprocset.h\*O \- Send a signal to one or more processes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ltypedef struct procset {
.nL
        idop_t  \*V*p_op\*L;
.nL
        idtype_t \*Vp_lidtype\*L;
.nL
        id_t     \*Vp_lid\*L;
.nL
        idtype_t \*Vp_ridtype\*L;
.nL
        id_t     \*Vp_rid\*L;
.nL
} procset_t\*O;
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "procset.h structure"
The contents of the \*L<procset.h>\*O structure define a set of
target processes based on logical operations performed on the two
sets of potential target
processes indicated by the two pairs of id + type parameters, which
designate "left" and "right" groups of processes.
The logical operations supported are the union, intersection, difference, and
exclusive OR of the left and right groups.
.PP
The \*Lp_lid\*O and \*Lp_lidtype\*O members define one set of potential
target processes, the "left" set.
The \*Lp_rid\*O and \*Lp_ridtype\*O members define the "right" set of
potential target processes.
These parameters work together to select the target process or
processes.
.PP
The value of \*Lp_op\*O is used to combine these two groups into the final
group of actual target processes:
.VL
.LI "\*LPOP_DIFF\*O"
Specifies that the target group of processes consist of the remaining
processes in the left set that are not common to the right set.
.LI "\*LPOP_AND\*O"
Specifies that the target group consists of those processes
that are in both sets.
.LI "\*LPOP_OR\*O"
Specifies that the target group consists of those
processes that are in either set, or in both sets.
.LI "\*LPOP_XOR\*O"
Specifies that the target group consists of those processes that
are in either set, but not in both sets.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lpriocntlset\*O(2), \*Lsigsend\*O(2).
.PP
Files: \*Lsignal.h\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
