.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: protocols.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/28 19:58:02 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH protocols 4
.SH NAME
\*Lprotocols\*O \- Defines the Internet protocols used on the local host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/etc/protocols\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "protocols" "Internet"
.iX "Internet protocols" "local definition"
The \*L/etc/protocols\*O file contains information about
the known protocols used
in the DARPA (Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency) Internet.  Each
protocol is represented by a single line in the \*Lprotocols\*O
file.  Each entry is of the form:
.oS
\*VName Number Aliases
.oE
.PP
The fields contain the following information:
.VL
.LI "\*VName\*O"
Official Internet protocol name.
.LI "\*VNumber\*O"
Protocol number.
.LI "\*VAliases\*O"
Unofficial names used for the protocol.
.LE
.PP
Items on a line are separated by one or more spaces or tab characters.
Comments begin with the \*L#\*O (number sign), and routines that search the
\*Lprotocols\*O file do not interpret characters from the beginning of a
comment to the end of the line.  A protocol name can contain any printable
character except a field delimiter, newline character, or comment
character.
.PP
The lines in the file appear as follows:
.oS
#
# Internet (IP) protocols
#	@(#)protocols	5.1 (Berkeley) 4/17/90
#
ip      0    IP         # internet protocol, pseudo protocol number
icmp    1    ICMP       # internet control message protocol
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
igmp    2    IGMP       # internet group management protocol
.\" End Digital-specific information
ggp     3    GGP        # gateway-gateway protocol
tcp     6    TCP        # transmission control protocol
egp     8    EGP        # exterior gateway protocol
pup     12   PUP        # PARC universal packet protocol
udp     17   UDP        # user datagram protocol
hmp     20   HMP        # host monitoring protocol
xns-idp 22   XNS-IDP    # Xerox NS IDP
rdp     27   RDP        # "reliable datagram" protocol
.oE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lendprotoent\*O(3), \*Lgetprotobyname\*O(3),
\*Lgetprotobynumber\*O(3), \*Lgetprotoent\*O(3), \*Lsetprotoent\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
