.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\"           Reference Page RSML Coding Template 
.\" 
.\"  This template is intended as a coding aid for writers producing
.\"  reference pages with RSML macros.  
.\"
.\"  To format reference pages, 
.\"  you can use the following command on ravine (only):
.\"  
.\"    bman -b|-o  -n|-p  filename
.\"    
.\"  where:
.\"         -b or -o 
.\"         Indicates the SCCS directory ("bsd" or "osf")
.\"         from which the reference page was checked out for edit.
.\"
.\"         -n or -p
.\"         Indicates the format ("nroff" or "PostScript") in
.\"         which you want an output file.
.\"
.\"  For example, the following command produces the file find.1.nr
.\"  in your default directory:
.\"
.\"         % bman -o -n find.1
.\"
.\" *** MIPS Information ***
.\"
.\" If there is MIPS-specific information included on a manpage,
.\" set it off with conditional coding:
.\"
.\" #ifdef MIPS
.\"
.\" End the MIPS-specific information with this line:
.\"
.\" #endif
.\" 
.\" Be sure the "#ifdef MIPS" and "#endif" are flush with the
.\" left margin, and that each is on a line by itself.
.\" 
.\" **********************
.\"
.\" NOTE:  Do NOT include any copyright notice in your manpage unless
.\"        you have taken the information from another source, such
.\"        as the OSF.  
.\"
.\"        Do NOT include .so lines for the RSML and SML macro packages.
.\"
.\" **********************
.\"         
.\"  The path to this template is:
.\"
.\"	ravine:/usr/public/RefPage_Template_RSML
.\"   
.\" - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
.\"	
.\" created per 6-15-92 note from D. Parker
.\"
.TH remote 4
.iX "remote file"
.iX "files" "remote"
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lremote\*O \- Remote host description file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/etc/remote\*O 
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*L/etc/remote\*O file stores in an ASCII file, remote system attributes
known by \*Ltip\*O.
Each line in the file provides a description for a single system.
Fields are separated by colons (:).
Lines ending in a backslash (\\) followed 
immediately by a newline character are continued on the next line.
.PP
The first entry is the names of the host system.  If there is more
than one name for a system, the names are separated by vertical bars.
After the name of the system comes the fields of the description.  A
field name followed by an equal sign (=) indicates
a string value follows.  A field
name followed by a number sign (#) indicates a following numeric value.
.\" .PP
.\" Entries named ``tip*'' and ``cu*''
.\" are used as default entries by
.\" .PN tip 
.\" and the
.\" .PN cu
.\" interface to
.\" .PN tip ,
.\" as follows.  When
.\" .PN tip
.\" is invoked with only a phone number, it looks for an entry
.\" of the form ``tip300'', where 300 is the baud rate with
.\" which the connection is to be made.  When the
.\" .PN cu
.\" interface is used, entries of the form ``cu300'' are used.
.SH CAPABILITIES
.PP
.\" remote.4
Capabilities are either strings (\*Vstr\*O), numbers (\*Vnum\*O), or Boolean
flags (\*Vbool\*O).  A string capability is of the form:
.iS
\*Vcapability\*O=\*Vvalue\*O
.iE
.PP
An example is:
.iS
dv=/dev/harris
.iE
.PP
A numeric capability is of the form:
.iS
\*Vcapability\*O#\*Vvalue\*O
.iE
.PP
An example is:
.iS
xa#99
.iE
.PP
A Boolean capability is specified simply by listing it.
The following are available capabilities:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lat\*O"
(\*Vstr\*O)
Autocall unit type.  This string is what is searched for in 
\*L/etc/acucap\*O
to decide if the generic dialer is to be used. 
For more information, see \*Lacucap\*O(4). 
.LI "\*Lbr\*O"
(\*Vnum\*O)
The baud rate used in establishing
a connection to the remote host.
This is a decimal number.
The default baud rate is 300 baud.
.LI "\*Lcm\*O"
(\*Vstr\*O)
An initial connection message to be sent
to the remote host.  For example, if a
host is reached through port selector, this
might be set to the appropriate sequence
required to switch to the host.
.LI "\*Lcu\*O"
(\*Vstr\*O)
Call unit if making a phone call.
Default is the same as the \*Ldv\*O field.
.LI "\*Ldi\*O
(\*Vstr\*O)
Disconnect message sent to the host when a
disconnect is requested by the user.
.LI "\*Ldu\*O"
(\*Vbool\*O)
This host is on a dial-up line.
.LI "\*Ldv\*O"
(\*Vstr\*O)
UNIX devices to open to establish a connection.
If this file refers to a terminal line, \*Ltip\*O
attempts to perform an exclusive open on the device to ensure only
one user at a time has access to the port.
.LI "\*Lel\*O"
(\*Vstr\*O)
Characters marking an end-of-line.
The default is NULL.  Tilde (\*L~\*O) escapes are 
recognized by \*Ltip\*O only after one of the characters in \*Lel\*O,
or after a carriage-return.
.LI "\*Lfs\*O"
(\*Vstr\*O)
Frame size for transfers.
The default frame size is equal to BUFSIZ.
.LI "\*Lhd\*O"
(\*Vbool\*O)
The host uses half-duplex communication; local
echo should be performed.
.LI "\*Lie\*O"
(\*Vstr\*O)
Input end-of-file marks.
The default is NULL.
.\" .TP 0.5i
.\" .B md
.\" (bool)  
.\" A hardwired device being used accepts modem control
.\" signals.  Used when 
.\" .PN du
.\" is not present but modem
.\" signals are to be used.
.LI "\*Loe\*O"
(\*Vstr\*O)
Output end-of-file string.
The default is NULL.  When \*Ltip\*O
is transferring a file, this
string is sent at end-of-file.
.LI "\*Lpa\*O"
(\*Vstr\*O)
The type of parity to use when sending data
to the host.  The type can be one of even,
odd, none, zero (always set bit 8 to zero), or
1 (always set bit 8 to 1).  The default
is none.
.LI "\*Lpn\*O"
(\*Vstr\*O)
Telephone numbers for this host.
If the telephone number field contains
an \*L@\*O sign, \*Ltip\*O
searches the file 
\*L/etc/phones\*O
file for a list of telephone numbers.  For more information, see
\*Lphones\*O(4).
.LI "\*Ltc\*O"
(\*Vstr\*O)
Indicates that the list of capabilities is continued
in the named description.  This is used
primarily to share common capability information.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Here is a short example showing the use of the capability continuation
feature:
.iS
UNIX-1200:\e
	:dv=/dev/ttyd0:el=^D^U^C^S^Q^O:\e
	:du:at=df112:ie=#$%:oe=^D:br#1200:
ourvax|ox:\e
	:pn=7654321:tc=UNIX-1200
.iE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Ltip\*O(1).
.PP
Files: \*Lacucap\*O(4), \*Lphones\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
.EQ
delim off
.EN
