.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: remote.unknown.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 09:21:14 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH remote.unknown 4
.SH NAME
\*Lremote.unknown\*O \- Logs access attempts by unknown remote systems
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/usr/lib/uucp/remote.unknown
.sE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
The \*L/usr/lib/uucp/remote.unknown\*O file contains a shell procedure.
It is executed by the \*Luucp\*O program when a remote computer that
is not listed in the local \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O file attempts
to communicate with that local system.  The \*Luucp\*O program does not permit
the unknown remote system to connect with the local system.  Instead,
the \*Lremote.unknown\*O shell procedure appends an entry to the
file \*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Admin/Foreign\*O.
.PP 
Modify the \*Lremote.unknown\*O file to fit the needs of your
site.  For example, to allow unknown systems to contact your system,
remove the execute permissions for the \*Lremote.unknown\*O file.
You can also modify the shell script to send mail to the \*Luucp\*O
administrator or to recognize certain systems and reject others.
.PP 
Only someone with superuser authority
can edit the \*Lremote.unknown\*O file, which is owned by the \*Luucp\*O
program login ID.
.SH "FILES"
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp\*O"
Contains all configuration files for uucp, including the 
\*Lremote.unknown\*O file
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O"
Describes accessible remote systems
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Admin/Foreign\*O"
Lists access attempts by unknown systems
.LE 
.EQ
delim off
.EN
