.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: resolver.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 09:21:41 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1986 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)resolver.5	5.11 (Berkeley) 6/27/90
.\" 
.TH resolver 4
.SH NAME
\*Lresolver\*O \- Resolver configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "resolver configuration file"
.iX "files" "resolver configuration"
.iX "Internet" "domain name"
.iX "domain name"
.wH .LP
The
\*Lresolver\*O
is a set of routines in the C library
that provide access to the Internet Domain Name System.
The
\*Lresolver\*O
configuration file contains information that is read
by the
\*Lresolver\*O
routines the first time they are invoked by a process.
The file is designed to be read by humans and contains a list of
keywords with values that provide various types of
\*Lresolver\*O
information.
.PP
On a normally configured system this file should not be necessary.
The only name server to be queried will be on the local machine,
the domain name is determined from the hostname,
and the domain search path is constructed from the domain name.
.PP
The different configuration options are:
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Lnameserver\*O"
Internet address (in dot notation) of a name server
that the
\*Lresolver\*O
should query.
Up to MAXNS (currently 3) name servers may be listed,
one per keyword.
If there are multiple servers,
the
\*Lresolver\*O
library queries them in the order listed.
If no \*Lnameserver\*O entries are present,
the default is to use the name server on the local machine.
(The algorithm used is to try a name server, and if the query times out,
try the next, until out of name servers,
then repeat trying all the name servers
until a maximum number of retries are made).
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Ldomain\*O" 
Local domain name.
Most queries for names within this domain can use short names
relative to the local domain.
If no \*Ldomain\*O entry is present, the domain is determined
from the local hostname returned by
\*Lgethostname(\|)\*O;
the domain part is taken to be everything after the first . (dot).
Finally, if the hostname does not contain a domain part, the root
domain is assumed.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Lsearch\*O" 
Search list for hostname lookup.
The search list is normally determined from the local domain name;
by default, it begins with the local domain name, then successive
parent domains that have at least two components in their names.
This may be changed by listing the desired domain search path
following the \*Lsearch\*O keyword with spaces or tabs separating
the names.
Most
\*Lresolver\*O
queries
will be attempted using each component
of the search path in turn until a match is found.
Note that this process may be slow and will generate a lot of network
traffic if the servers for the listed domains are not local,
and that queries will time out if no server is available
for one of the domains.
.LI ""
The search list is currently limited to six domains
with a total of 256 characters.
.PP
The \*Ldomain\*O and \*Lsearch\*O keywords are mutually exclusive.
If more than one instance of these keywords is present,
the last instance will override.
.PP
The keyword and value must appear on a single line, and the keyword
(e.g. \*Lnameserver\*O) must start the line.  The value follows
the keyword, separated by white space.
.LE 
.SH FILES
\*L/etc/resolv.conf\*O
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lgethostbyname\*O(3),
\*Lres_mkquery\*O(3),
\*Lres_send\*O(3),
\*Lres_init\*O(3),
\*Ldn_comp\*O(3),
\*Ldn_expand\*O(3)
.PP 
Files:
\*Lhostname\*O(5)
.PP 
Commands:
\*Lnamed\*O(8)
.iX "resolver configuration file"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
