.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: resolv.conf.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/21 15:20:20 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH resolv.conf 4
.SH NAME
\*Lresolv.conf\*O \- Resolver configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/etc/resolv.conf
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "resolv.conf file"
.iX "file" "resolv.conf"
.PP
The resolver is a set of routines in the C library (\*Lresolver\*O(4))
that provide access to the Internet Domain Name System.  The resolver
configuration file contains information that is read by the resolver
routines the first time they are invoked by a process.  The file is designed to
be human readable and contains a list of keywords with values that
provide various types of resolver information.
.PP
On a normally configured system this file should not be necessary.
The only name server to be queried will be on the local machine, the
domain name is determined from the host name, and the domain search
path is constructed from the domain name.
.PP
The file format is as follows:
.iS
\*Lnameserver\*V Address\*O
.iE
.PP
Internet address (in dot notation) of a name server that the resolver
should query.  Up to MAXNS (currently 3) name servers may be listed,
one per keyword.  If there are multiple servers, the resolver library
queries them in the order listed.  If no nameserver entries are
present, the default is to use the name server on the local machine.
(The algorithm used is to try a name server, and if the query times out, try the
next, until out of name servers, then repeat trying all
the name servers until a maximum number of retries are made).
.iS
\*Ldomain\*O \*VDomainName\*O
.iE
.PP
Local domain name.  Most queries for names within this domain can use
short names relative to the local domain.  If no domain entry is
present, the domain is determined from the local host name returned by
\*Lgethostname\*O(2); the domain part is taken to be everything after the
first \*L.\*O (dot).  Finally, if the host name does not contain a domain part,
the root domain is assumed.
.iS
\*Vsearch\*O
.iE
.PP
Search list for host-name lookup.  The search list is normally
determined from the local domain name; by default, it begins with the
local domain name, then successive parent domains that have at least
two components in their names.  This may be changed by listing
the desired domain search path following the search keyword with
spaces or tabs separating the names.  Most resolver queries will be
attempted using each component of the search path in turn until a
match is found. Note that this process may be slow and will generate a
lot of network traffic if the servers for the listed domains are not
local, and that queries will time out if no server is available for
one of the domains.
.PP
The search list is currently limited to six domains with a total of
256 characters.
.PP
The domain and search keywords are mutually exclusive.  If more than
one instance of these keywords is present, the last instance will
override.
.PP
The keyword and value must appear on a single line, and the keyword
(e.g. nameserver) must start the line.  The value follows the keyword,
separated by white space.
.SH "CAUTIONS"
.PP
Any white space entered after the domain name is not ignored but is
interpreted as part of the domain name.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands: \*Lnamed\*O(8)
.PP
Functions:  \*Lgethostbyname\*O(3), \*Lresolver\*O(4)
.PP
Files: \*Lhostname\*O(5)
.\" .PP
.\" \*VName Server Operations Guide for BIND\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
