.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rhosts.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 17:05:01 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
.\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail 
.\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH rhosts 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lrhosts\*O, \*L.rhosts\*O \- Specifies remote users that can use a local user account
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L$HOME/.rhosts\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "\&.rhosts file"
.iX "files" "\&.rhosts"
.iX "remote" "users and local accounts"
.iX "users" "access to local accounts"
.iX "users" "remote"
.iX "local" "accounts"
.iX "specifying remote users for local accounts"
.PP
The \*L\&.rhosts\*O file contains a list of remote users who are not
required to supply a login password when they execute the \*Lrcp\*O,
\*Lrlogin\*O, and \*Lrsh\*O commands using
a local user account.  This file is a hidden file in your
home directory and must be owned by you or by the
root user.  The permissions of the \*L\&.rhosts\*O file should be set to 600
(read and write by owner only).  Each entry in the file is of the
following form:
.oS
\*Vhost\*O [\*Vuser\*O]
.\" Removed and revised per Ron Menner
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\"\*Vhost\*O  +@\*Vnetgroup\*O
.\"+@\*Vnetgroup\*O
.\"+@\*Vnetgroup user\*O
.\"+@\*Vnetgroup\*O  +@\*Vnetgroup\*O
.\" End Digital-specific information
\*O\c
.oE
.PP
where:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vhost\*O"
The name of the remote host. If the remote host is in a different domain than
the local host, the full domain name must be specified.
.LI "\*Vuser\*O"
The login name of the remote user. This field is optional. If this field is not
specified, any user on the specified remote host is exempt from providing a
password, and is assumed to have the same username on both the local and remote
hosts.
.LE
.PP
Optionally, an NIS netgroup name can be specified for the host name, user name,
or both.
.PP
.\"Removed per Ron Menner
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\".PP
.\".ce 1
.\"\f(HBNote\fP
.\".sp 6p
.\".rS 5
.\"To minimize security risks, the use of a single plus sign (+) is not supported.
.\".sp 6p
.\".rE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.PP
Entries in the \*L\&.rhosts\*O file are either positive or negative. Positive
entries allow access; negative entries deny access. The following entries are
positive:
.oS
\*Vhostname\*O
\*Vusername\*O
+@\*Vnetgroup\*O
.oE
.PP
In addition, the plus sign (+) can be used in place of the hostname or
username. In place of the hostname, it means any remote host. In place of the
username, it means any user.
.PP
The following entries are negative:
.oS
\-\*Vhostname\*O
\-\*Vusername\*O
\-@\*Vnetgroup\*O
.oE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following sample entries in the \*L/u/chen/.rhosts\*O file
on host \*Lzeus\*O allow users \*Lmoshe\*O and
\*Lpierre\*O at remote host \*Lvenus\*O and user \*Lrobert\*O at the hosts
specified in the NIS netgroup \*Lchicago\*O to log in to
user \*Lchen\*O's home directory on host \*Lzeus\*O:
.oS
venus moshe
venus pierre
+@chicago robert
\*O\c
.oE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 7m
.LI "\*L$HOME/.rhosts\*O"
Specifies remote users who can use a local user account.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lrcp\*O(1), \*Lrlogin\*O(1), \*Lrsh\*O(1).
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.PP
Functions: \*Lruserok\*O(3).
.PP
Files: \*Lhosts.equiv\*O(4), \*Lnetgroup\*O(4).
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP
Functions:  \*Lrcmd\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
