.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\" 
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" 
.TH routes 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lroutes\*O \- Specifies Internet routing information to the routing tables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "routes file"
.iX "Internet routing information" "routes file"
.sS
\*L/etc/routes\*O
.sE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
Static routes can be defined in the \*L/etc/routes\*O file.
The \*L/etc/routes\*O file identifies static routes that are automatically
added to the network routing tables with the \*L/usr/sbin/route add\*O command.
The \*L/sbin/init.d/route\*O script contains the \*L/usr/sbin/route add\*O
command that is executed for each entry in the
\*L/etc/routes\*O file when the network is restarted on the system or
the system is rebooted.
.PP
The general format of an entry in the \*L/etc/routes\*O file is:
.iS
\*VDest\*O \*VName1\*O \*VName2\*O
.iE
.PP
The following is a brief description of each element in an \*L/etc/routes\*O
file entry:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*VDest\*O"
A keyword that indicates whether the route is to a network
or to a host. The two possible keywords are
\*L-net\*O and \*L-host\*O.
.LI "\*VName1\*O"
The name or address of the destination network or host.
\*VName1\*O can be either a symbolic name (as used in the
\*L/etc/hosts\*O or \*L/etc/networks\*O file) or an Internet
address specified in dotted-decimal format.
.LI "\*VName2\*O"
The name or address of the gateway host to which messages
should be forwarded.  \*VName1\*O can be either a symbolic
name (as used in the \*L/etc/hosts\*O file) or an Internet
address specified in dotted-decimal format.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To specify a route to a network through a gateway
host with an entry in the \*L/etc/routes\*O file, enter:
.iS
.sp
-net net2 host4
.sp
.iE
.IP
This example specifies a route to a network, \*Lnet2\*O, through
the gateway \*Lhost4\*O.
.LI
To specify a route to a host through a gateway
host with an entry in the \*L/etc/routes\*O file, enter:
.iS
.sp
-host host2 host4
.sp
.iE
.IP
This example specifies a route to a host, \*Lhost2\*O, through
the gateway \*Lhost4\*O.
.LI
To specify a route to a default gateway host with an entry in the
\*L/etc/routes\*O file, enter:
.iS
.sp
default 130.9.0.5
.sp
.iE
This example specifies a route to a default gateway with an Internet
address of 130.9.0.5.
.LE
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/sbin/init.d/route\*O"
Contains the \*L/usr/sbin/routed add\*O command.
.\"Removed as per Lisa's mail 11/3/92
.\".LI "\*L/sbin/init.d/gateway\*O"
.\"Contains the \*L/usr/sbin/route add\*O command
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lroute\*O(8)
.PP
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
.\"
.\" This source file has been processed by the osf_build_manpages
.\" script.  Contact dlibrary@ravine if you need more information.
.\" 
.EQ
delim off
.EN
