.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sccsfile.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/21 15:22:12 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH sccsfile 4
.SH NAME
\*Lsccsfile\*O \- Contains Source Code Control System (SCCS) information
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP
.sS
\*Lsccsfile\*O
.sE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
The \*Lsccsfile\*O file is a text file consisting of six
logical parts: checksum, delta table, user names, flags, comments,
and body.
.PP 
Note that there are lines throughout an SCCS file that begin with the ASCII
\*LSOH\*O (start of heading) character (octal 001).  This character
is called the \*Vcontrol character\*O and is represented graphically
as an \*L@\*O (at sign) in the following text.
.SS Checksum
.PP 
The checksum is the first line of an SCCS file.  The value of
the checksum is the sum of all characters, except those of the first line.
.PP 
The format of the line is
\*L@h\*VDDDDD\*O.
.PP
\*VDDDDD\*O is the serial number corresponding
to the delta for the control line (a 5-digit string
from 00000 to 99999).
\*L@h\*O designates a magic number of 064001 octal (or 0x6801).
.SS Delta Table
.PP 
The delta table provides
information about each delta including type,
SCCS identification (SID), date and time of creation, and comments.
.PP 
The delta table consists of a variable number of entries such
as the following:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L@s\*O \*VDDDDD/DDDDD/DDDDD\*O"
Contains the number of lines
inserted or deleted or unchanged, respectively.
.LI "\*L@d\*O<\*Vtype\*O> <\*VSID\*O> \*Vyy/mm/dd hh:mm:ss\*O <\*Vuser\*O> \*VDDDDD DDDDD\*O" 
where:
.ML
.LI
\*Vtype\*O is the type of delta, with \*LD\*O designating a normal delta
and \*LR\*O designating a removed delta.
.LI
\*VSID\*O is the SCCS identification of the delta.
.LI
\*Vyy\*L/\*Vmm\*L/\*Vdd\*O \*Vhh\*L:\*Vmm\*L:\*Vss\*O 
is the date and time the delta was created.
.LI
\*Vuser\*O is the 
username that corresponds to 
the real user ID at the time the delta was created.
.LI
\*VDDDDD\*O is the serial number 
of the delta and its predecessor, respectively.
.LE  
.LI "\*L@i\*O \*VDDDDD\*O"
Contains the serial numbers of the deltas included.
This line is optional.
.LI "\*L@x\*O \*VDDDDD\*O" 
Contains the serial numbers of deltas excluded.  This
line is optional.
.LI "\*L@g \*VDDDDD\*O" 
Contains the serial numbers of the deltas ignored.
This line is optional.
.LI "\*L@m<\*VMR_number\*L>\*O" 
Contains a modification request
(MR) number associated with the delta, one MR number per line.
These lines are optional.
.LI "\*L@c<\*Vcomment\*L>\*O" 
Contains comment lines associated with the delta.
.LI "\*L@e\*O" 
Ends the delta table entry.
.LE 
.SS User Names
.PP 
The user names section contains user names and numerical group IDs
of users who are allowed to add or remove deltas from the SCCS file,
separated by newline characters.
The bracketing lines \*L@u\*O and \*L@U\*O surround the lines
containing the list.  An empty list allows any user to make a delta.
.SS Flags
.PP 
The flags section contains definitions of internal keywords.
.SS Comments
.PP 
The comments section contains descriptive information about the file.
Typically, this section contains a description of the
purpose of the file.  Bracketing lines \*L@t\*O and \*L@T\*O
surrounding text designate the \*LComments\*O section.
.SS Body
.PP 
The body contains the actual text
lines, intermixed with control lines.
Control lines begin with a control character, text lines do not.  There
are three kinds of control lines:  insert, delete,
and end, represented by:
.iS
\*L@I\*O \*VDDDDD\*O

\*L@D\*O \*VDDDDD\*O

\*L@E\*O \*VDDDDD\*O
.iE
.PP 
The digit string is the serial number corresponding
to the delta for the control line.
.SS Keywords
.PP 
Keywords are used internally in the system.  For more information
about their use, see the \*Ladmin\*O command.  The format of each line
is as follows:
.iS
\*L@f <\*Vcharacter\*L> <\*Voptional text\*L>
.iE
.PP 
The following keywords are defined:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L@f t\*O"
<type of program>
.LI "\*L@f v\*O" 
<program name>
.LI "\*L@f i\*O" 
.LI "\*L@f b\*O" 
.LI "\*L@f m\*O" 
<module name>
.LI "\*L@f f\*O" 
<floor>
.LI "\*L@f c\*O" 
<ceiling>
.LI "\*L@f d\*O" 
<default SID>
.LI "\*L@f n\*O" 
.LI "\*L@f j\*O" 
.LI "\*L@f l\*O" 
<lock releases>
.LI "\*L@f q\*O" 
<user defined>
.LE 
.PP 
The characters are used as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lb\*O"
Allows the use of the \*L-b\*O flag on the \*Lget\*O
command to cause a branch in the delta tree.
.LI "\*Lc\*O" 
Defines the highest release number, less than or equal
to 9999, that can be retrieved by a \*Lget\*O command for editing.
This release number is called the \*Vceiling\*O release number.
.LI "\*Ld\*O" 
Defines the default SID to be used when one is not
specified with a \*Lget\*O command.
.LI "\*Lf\*O" 
Defines the lowest release number between 0 and 9999,
that can be retrieved by a \*Lget\*O command for editing.  This
release number is called the \*Vfloor\*O release number.
.LI "\*Li\*O" 
Controls the error warning message \*CNo ID keywords\*O.  
When this character is not present, this message is only a warning.  When
this character is present, the file is not used and the delta is not made.
.LI "\*Lj\*O" 
Causes the \*Lget\*O command to allow concurrent
edits of the same base SID.
.LI "\*Ll\*O" 
Defines a list of releases that cannot be edited with \*Lget\*O
using the \*L-e\*O flag.
.LI "\*Lm\*O" 
\*ODefines the first choice for the replacement text of
the \*L%\@M%\*O identification keyword.
.LI "\*Ln\*O" 
Causes the \*Ldelta\*O command to insert a delta
that applies no changes for those skipped releases when a delta for
a new release is made.  For example, delta 5.1 is made after delta
2.1, skipping releases 3 and 4.  When this character is omitted, it causes
skipped releases to be completely empty.
.LI "\*Lq\*O" 
Defines the replacement for the \B identification keyword.
.LI "\*Lt\*O" 
Defines the replacement for the \*O identification keyword.
.LI "\*Lv\*O" 
Controls prompting for MR numbers in addition
to comments.  If optional text is present, it defines an MR
number validity checking program.
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands: \*Ladmin\*O(1), \*Lcdc\*O(1), \*Lcomb\*O(1), \*Ldelta\*O(1),
\*Lget\*O(1), \*Lprs\*O(1), \*Lrmdel\*O(1), \*Lsact\*O(1), \*Lsccsdiff\*O(1),
\*Lsccshelp\*O(1), \*Lunget\*O(1), \*Lval\*O(1), \*Lwhat\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
