.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.TH securettys 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsecurettys\*O \- Secure terminal database file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "securettys file"
.iX "file securettys"
.iX "terminal control database"
.iX database "terminal control"
.ce 1
\f(HBSecurity Note\fP
.sp 6p
.rS 5
The terminal database file used on a trusted system is
\*L/etc/auth/system/ttys\*O and is documented in the \*Lttys(4)\*O
reference page.
.sp 6p
.rE
.PP
The \*L/etc/securettys\*O file specifies the tty lines that are
considered secure and permit logins as \*Lroot\*O.
.PP
Each line in the file contains the pathname of the special file for a
terminal.  A number sign (#) character can be used for comments.
The following example is typical and allows \*Lroot\*O to log in from the
console, from the X-display, and from tty00:
.oS
# Terminal lines for root logins
#
/dev/console
:0
/dev/tty00
.oE
.PP
If this file does not exist, \*Lroot\*O can log in only from the console.
.PP
To allow \*Lroot\*O to log in from any pseudoterminal, add the keyword
\*Lptys\*O to this file. (This keyword does not require the \*L/dev\*O
prefix.)
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/securettys\*O"
Specifies the pathname of the file.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Llogin\*O(1)
.PP
Functions: \*Lgetttyent\*O(3)
.PP
Files:  \*Lttys\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
