.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sendmail.cf.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/21 15:23:52 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH sendmail.cf 4
.SH NAME
\*Lsendmail.cf\*O \- Contains the \*Lsendmail\*O configuration file data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.iX "sendmail configuration"
.PP
.sS
\*L/var/adm/sendmail/sendmail.cf\*O
.sE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The \*Lsendmail.cf\*O file contains configuration
information for the \*Lsendmail\*O daemon.
Use the \*Lsendmail -bz \*Ocommand after changing any information
in the \*Lsendmail.cf \*Ofile.  The \*Lsendmail -bz\*O command
builds a configuration file that the \*Lsendmail\*O daemon can
read.
.PP
The \*Lsendmail.cf\*O configuration file consists of a series
of control lines, each of which begins with a single character that
defines how the rest of the line is used.  Lines beginning with a
space or a tab are continuation lines.  Blank lines and lines beginning
with a \*L#\*O (number sign) are comments.  The control line can be used
for the following functions:
.ML
.LI
Defining macros and classes for use within the configuration file
.LI
Defining message precedence for mail delivery
.LI
Defining administrative IDs to override the sender's address
.LI
Defining message headings
.LI
Defining the mail daemon to use
.LI
Setting options used by the \*Lsendmail\*O command
.LE
.PP
You can edit the \*Lsendmail.cf\*O
configuration file with any text editor.
.PP
The configuration file entries consist of lines, each of which
begins with a single-character command and an operand.   Continue
entries onto multiple lines by placing white space at the beginning
of each subsequent line.  The \*L#\*O (number sign) indicates that the
following line is a comment line.
.SS "Defining Macros and Classes (D Control Line and C Control Line)"
Macros and classes in the \*Lsendmail.cf \*Oconfiguration file
are interpreted by the \*Lsendmail\*O daemon.   A \*Lmacro\*O is a symbol
that represents a value or string, for example, or an Internet address.
A macro is defined by a \*LD\*O control line in the \*Lsendmail.cf\*O
file.  Macros are not expanded until the \*Lsendmail\*O daemon
loads the rule sets when it starts up.  The \*Lsendmail.cf\*O file
contains \*Vsystem-defined macros\*O and \*Vrequired macros\*O
that you must define.
.PP
A \*Lclass\*O is a symbol that represents a set of one or more words,
for example, or a filename.  Classes are used in pattern matching
when the \*Lsendmail\*O daemon is parsing addresses.  You can
create a class using a list or you can create a class using a file.
.PP
The following letters introduce configuration-file control lines
that define macros and classes to set up the \*Lsendmail\*O daemon:
.VL
.LI "\*LD\*VMacroValue\*O"
Defines a macro and assigns a
value  to it.  If a second \*LD\*VMacroValue\*O defines the same symbol,
the second definition replaces the first definition.
The symbol must be a single character selected from the ASCII
set.  Use uppercase letters for macros and classes that you define.
Lowercase letters and special symbols are macros and classes defined
by the daemon.
.LI "\*LC\*VClass String\*O"
Defines \*VClass\*O to be a class
and assigns a word or group of words (\*VString\*O) to it.  If
a second \*LC\*VClass String\*O defines the same symbol, the \*VString\*O
from the second definition is added to the \*VString\*O from
the first definition.  No words are deleted from the class definition.
Class specifiers may be any of the uppercase letters from the
ASCII character set.  Lowercase letters and special characters are
reserved for system use.
.LI "\*LF \*VClass FileName \*L[\*VFormat\*L]\*O"
Defines symbol \*VClass\*O to be a class and assigns a word or group of words
listed in a separate file to the symbol.
You can specify an optional \*Lscanf\*O format specifier.
Class specifiers may be any of the uppercase letters from the
ASCII character set.  Lowercase letters and special characters are
reserved for system use.
.LE
.PP
To use a macro or class in a control line, put a \*L$\*O (dollar
sign) before its name.  For example, if the name of the macro is \*Lx\*O,
use \*L$x\*O when using that macro in a control line. Without the
preceding \*L$\*O, the  daemon interprets \*Lx\*O as only the
letter "x".  The format for specifying conditional expressions is as
follows:
.iS
$?Macro Text1 $| Text2 $.
.iE
.PP
In this format, the symbols have the following meaning:
.VL
.LI "\*L$?\*O"
If.
.LI "\*LMacro\*O"
The macro being tested.
.LI "\*LText1\*O"
The pattern to be used if \*L$\*Vx\*O is defined.
.LI "\*L$|\*O"
Else.  (This symbol is not required.)
.LI "\*LText2\*O"
The pattern to be used if \*L$\*VMacro\*O is not defined.
.LI "\*L$.\*O"
Specifies the end of the conditional expression.
.LE
.PP
Do not use any of the characters defined as tokens
(by the required macro \*Lo\*O) when defining
a word in a class.  The \*Lsendmail \*Odaemon may not be able to
read the definition correctly.
.SS "Defining Message Precedence (P Control Line)"
The \*Lsendmail.cf\*O configuration file also contains lines
to define mail-queue precedence for messages that contain
a \*LPrecedence:\*O field.  Normally, you do not need to
change the values in the default \*Lsendmail.cf\*O configuration file.
.PP
The name defined and the numerical value assigned are based on
the needs of the network. Higher numbers have higher priority; numbers
less than \*L0\*O (zero) indicate that error messages will
not be returned to the
sender of these messages. The precedence value is \*L0\*O (zero) for any
precedence name not defined in this file.  For example, the configuration
file may contain the following entries:
.oS
Pfirst-class=0
Pspecial-delivery=100
Pbulk=-60
Pjunk=-100
.oE
.PP
These entries set \*Lspecial-delivery\*O as the highest
priority message and \*Ljunk\*O as the lowest priority.
.SS "Defining Administrative IDs (T Control Line)"
Administrative IDs can override the sender address using the \*L-f\*O
flag to the \*Lsendmail\*O command.  The \*Lsendmail.cf\*O configuration
file defines these IDs with the \*LT\*O control line.  For example,
the configuration file may contain the following entries:
.oS
Troot
Tdaemon
Tuucp
.oE
.PP
These entries define IDs \*Lroot\*O, \*Ldaemon\*O, and \*Luucp\*O
as administrative IDs for the\*L sendmail\*O command.
.PP
These IDs could have been defined using only one \*LT\*O control
line:
.iS
Troot daemon uucp network
.iE
.SS "Defining Message Headings (H Control Line)"
The \*Lsendmail\*O daemon expects mail to have the following
parts in the following order:
.AL
.LI
An operating system \*LFrom\&\*O line (defined by the five
characters: \*LF\*O, \*Lr\*O, \*Lo\*O, \*Lm\*O, and space)
.LI
Mail header lines that begin with a keyword followed by a colon,
such as \*LFrom:\*O or \*LTo:\*O
.LI
An empty line
.LI
The body of the message
.LE
.PP
The \*Lsendmail\*O daemon detects the operating system \*LFrom\*O
line by checking the first five characters of the first line.  After
that, header lines are processed.  When it detects a line that does
not begin with a keyword followed by a colon, it ends header line
processing.  If an empty line occurs at that point, it is ignored.
.PP
Mailer flags or the mailer itself determine if an operating system \*LFrom:\*O
line is generated.  Other header lines are present (or not)
depending on those defined in the \*Lsendmail\*O configuration
file, those specified by mailer flags, and those present in incoming
mail.
.PP
Note that the \*Lbinmail\*O daemon generates a \*LFrom:\*O
line on all local deliveries.  The \*Lsendmail\*O mailer flags
do not allow you to alter this.
.PP
Lines in the configuration file that begin with a capital letter
\*LH\*O define the format of the headers used in messages.  The format
of the \*LH\*O control line is as follows:
.iS
\*LH\*O[\*L?\*VMailerFlags\*L?\*O]\*VFieldName\*L: \*VContent\*O
.iE
.PP
In this format, the variable parameters have the following meaning:
.VL
.LI "\*VMailerFlags\*O"
This field is optional.  If you supply it,
surround it with \*L?\*O (question marks).  This field contains mailer
flags that determine whether this \*LH\*O line is used.  If the
mailer being used requires the information specified by the mailer
flag, then this \*LH\*O control line is included when formatting
the heading.  Otherwise, this \*LH\*O control line is ignored.
.LI "\*VFieldName\*O"
This field contains the text that is displayed
as the name of the field in the heading information.  The actual text
used is a matter of choice.  Some typical field names include
\*LFrom:\*O, \*LTo:\*O, and \*LRcvd From:\*O.
.LI "\*VContent\*O"
This field defines the information that is displayed
following the field name.  It usually uses a \*Lsendmail\*O macro
to specify the information.
.LE
.PP
The following example lines are from a typical \*Lsendmail.cf\*O
file:
.oS
H?P?Return-Path: <$g>
.oE
.PP
This line defines a field called \*LReturn-Path:\*O that displays
the contents of the \*L$g\*O macro (sender address relative to the
receiver).  The \*L?P?\*O portion indicates that this line is
only used if the mailer uses the \*LP\*O flag (the mailer requires
a \*LReturn-Path\*O line).
.oS
HReceived: $?sfrom $s $.by $j ($v/$Z)
        id $i; $b
.oE
.PP
This line defines a field called \*LReceived\*O.  This field
displays the following information:
.VL
.LI "\*L$?sfrom $s $.\*O"
If an \*Ls\*O macro is defined (sender's
hostname), displays the text \*Lfrom\*O followed by the content
of the \*L$s \*Omacro.
.LI "\*Lby $j\*O"
Displays the text \*Lby\*O followed by the content of
the \*L$j\*O macro (official name for this site).
.LI "\*L( $v/$Z)\*O"
Displays the version of the \*Lsendmail\*O
daemon (\*L$v\*O) and the version of the \*Lsendmail.cf \*Ofile
(\*L$Z\*O) set off by parentheses and separated by a slash.
.LI "\*Lid $i;\*O"
Displays the text \*Lid\*O followed by the
content of the \*L$i\*O macro (mail-queue ID of the message)
and a \*L;\*O (semicolon).
.LI "\*L$b\*O"
Displays the current date.
.LE
.SS "Defining a Mailer (M Control Line)"
A mailer is a daemon that delivers mail either locally or over
some type of network to another system. Use control lines that begin
with the letter \*LM\*O to define the characteristics of a mailer
daemon that interfaces with \*Lsendmail\*O.
.PP
Note that defining a mail daemon entry (mailer) in the \*Lsendmail.cf\*O
configuration file does not ensure that it will be used.  You
must also define rewrite rules to ensure the
address format resolves to that mailer.
.PP
The format of a mailer definition control line is as follows:
.oS
M=MailerName,
P=Path,
F=Flags,
S=Integers,E=EndOfLine,
A=String,
M=Limit
.oE
.PP
The following paragraphs and examples describe the parameters
for the mailer definition.
.PP
\f(HBSpecifying a Mailer Name (\fP\*LM\*VMailerName\*O\f(HB)\fP
.PP
Each mailer must have an internal name.  The name can be any string
that you choose, except that the names \*Llocal\*O and \*Lprog\*O
are reserved for the mailers for local delivery and delivery to daemons.
You must provide definitions for these two mailers in the \*Lsendmail.cf\*O
configuration file if they are not already there (the default
configuration file contains these definitions). To define the mailer
name, put the name immediately after the\*L M\*O in the mailer-definition
control line:
.iS
\*LM\*VMailerName\*O
.iE
.PP
For example, the following segment introduces the definition line
for a mailer called \*Llan\*O:
.oS
Mlan
.oE
.PP
\f(HBDefining the Path to the Mailer Daemon (\fP\*LP=\*VPath\*O\f(HB)\fP
.PP
Specify the location of the mailer daemon with the \*LP\*O
field in the mailer definition.  This field has the format:
.iS
\*LP=\*VPath\*O
.iE
.PP
The \*VPath\*O defines the full pathname of the mailer daemon
on the local system.  If the mailer daemon is the \*Lsendmail\*O
daemon version of Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) (daemon), use
the string \*L[IPC]\*O as the path.
For example, the following two mailer-definition
fragments define a local mailer at \*L/usr/bin/mail\*O and another
mailer that is the \*Lsendmail \*Odaemon implementation of SMTP:
.oS
Mlocal, P=/usr/bin/mail,
Mlan, P=[IPC],
.oE
.PP
\f(HBSpecifying Mailer Flags (\fP\*LF=\*VFlags\*O\f(HB)\fP
.PP
Mailer flags provide further information to the \*Lsendmail\*O
daemon about the mailer daemon being described. Specify mailer flags
with the \*LF\*O field in the mailer-definition.  This field has
the format:
.iS
\*LF=\*VFlags\*O
.iE
.PP
This field defines the meaning for the flags that the\*L sendmail\*O
daemon recognizes.  For example, the following mailer-definition fragment
uses the \*L-rlsm\*O flags to indicate that the mailer requires
a \*L-r\*O flag, delivers locally, needs quotation marks stripped
from addresses, and can deliver to more than one user at a time:
.oS
Mlocal, P=/usr/bin/mail, F=rlsm,
.oE
.PP
Flags available for the\*L F=\*VFlags \*Ofield are as follows:
.VL
.LI "\*LC\*O"
If this flag is set, this mailer inspects the address
of any incoming mail that it processes for the presence of an \*L@\*O (at sign).
If it finds an \*L@\*O, it saves the \*L@\*O and the remainder of the
address to be used when rewriting addresses in header lines in the
message (when mail is forwarded to any mailer).
.IP
The receiving mailer adds the saved portion of the address to
any address that does not contain an \*L@\*O, after the address has been
processed by rule set 3 (this processing does not depend upon a mailer
flag; it always occurs).  Do not use this flag for general operation,
since it does not interpret complex, route-based addresses properly.
.LI "\*LD\*O"
The mailer defined in this mailer-definition control
line needs a \*LDate:\*O or \*LResent-Date:\*O header line.
.LI "\*Le\*O"
The mailer defined in this mailer-definition control
line is expensive to connect to.  If the \*LC\*O configuration
option is set, mail for this mailer is always placed in the queue.
.LI "\*LE\*O"
This flag causes the mailer in the definition control
line to allow lines beginning with the exact six
characters  \*L>\*O, \*LF\*O, \*Lr\*O, \*Lo\*O, \*Lm\*O, and space
to appear in the text of a message.  Normally \*LFrom:\*O lines
are treated as header lines.
The \*LE\*O flag allows operating system \*LFrom:\*O lines
(or any other text lines beginning with those six characters) to appear
in the body of the message without being interpreted as the start
of a new message.
.LI "\*Lf\*O"
The mailer in the mailer-definition control line needs
a \*L-f\*O flag.  The flag is inserted into the call for the mailer
followed by the expansion of the \*L$g\*O macro (sender's address
relative to the receiver).
.LI "\*LF\*O"
The mailer in the mailer-definition control line needs
a \*LFrom:\*O or \*LResent-From:\*O header line.
.LI "\*Lh\*O"
Preserves uppercase letters in hostnames for the mailer
in the mailer-definition control line.
.LI "\*LI\*O"
The mailer in the mailer-definition control line uses
Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) to communicate with another SMTP
server that is part of the \*Lsendmail\*O daemon.  When communicating
with another \*Lsendmail \*Odaemon, the mailer can use features
that are not part of the standard SMTP protocol. This option is not
required, but causes the transmission to operate more efficiently
than without the option.
.LI "\*Ll\*O"
The mailer in the mailer-definition control line is
local; final delivery will be performed.
.LI "\*LL\*O"
The \*LL\*O flag enforces SMTP line lengths.
.LI "\*Lm\*O"
The mailer in the mailer-definition control line can be
sent to multiple users on the same host in one transaction.  When
a \*L$u\*O macro occurs in the \*VString\*O part of the mailer-definition,
that field will le.
.LI "\*LOQ/usr/spool/mqueue\*O"
Sets the mail-queue directory option
variable \*LQ\*O to a directory  (\*L/usr/spool/mqueue\*O) that defines
where the mail log is to be kept.
.LI "\*LOA/var/adm/sendmail/aliases\*O"
Sets the option variable \*LA\*O to the full pathname of the
aliases file (\*L/var/adm/sendmail/aliases\*O).
.LE
.PP
\f(HBSetting Delivery Mode (\fP\*LOd\*VValue\*O\f(HB)\fP
.PP
The \*Lsendmail\*O daemon can operate in several delivery modes.
The default configuration file sets the delivery mode to \*Lb\*O.
However, you can change the delivery mode with the \*LOd\*VValue \*Ooption
in the configuration file. These modes specify how quickly mail will
be delivered.  Legal values include the following:
.VL
.LI "\*Li\*O"
Deliver interactively.
.LI "\*Lb\*O"
Deliver in background.  (This is the default.)
.LI "\*Lq\*O"
Queue the message and deliver during queue run.
.LE
.PP
\f(HBTime-Out Option (\fP\*LOr\*VNumber\*O \f(HBand\fP \*LOT\*VNumber\*O\f(HB)\fP
.PP
The \*Lsendmail\*O daemon can time out when reading standard
input or when reading from a remote SMTP server.  The default
configuration file sets this value to 5 minutes.
This value should be correct for most situations.  However, if you
need to change the time-out value, change the \*Lr\*O option in
the configuration file.  The \*Lr\*O option has the format:
.iS
\*LOr\*VNumber\*O
.iE
.PP
In this format, \*VNumber\*O  is the number of minutes that
the \*Lsendmail\*O daemon should wait until timing out.
.PP
After sitting in the queue for a few days, a message times out.
The \*Lsendmail\*O daemon notifies the sender of the message that
it could not be sent. The time out is typically set to 3 days.  Set
this time out with the \*LT\*O option in the \*Lsendmail.cf \*Oconfiguration
file:
.iS
\*LOT\*VNumber\*O
.iE
.PP
In this format, \*VNumber\*O is the number of days the \*Lsendmail\*O
daemon leaves the message in the queue before timing out the
message.
.PP
\f(HBOperational Logging Level Option (\fP\*LOL\*VNumber\*O\f(HB)\fP
.PP
The \*LOL\*O option specifies the log level to be used when
the \*L sendmail \*Odaemon is running.
.PP
The format of the line to change the operational logging level is:
.iS
\*LOL\*VNumber\*O
.iE
.PP
Following is a list of valid levels (\*VNumber\*O) and the
activities that they represent (each number includes the activities
of all numbers of lesser value and adds the activity that it represents):
.VL
.LI "\*L0\*O"
No logging.
.LI "\*L1\*O"
Major problems only.
.LI "\*L2\*O"
Message collections and failed deliveries.
.LI "\*L3\*O"
Successful deliveries.
.LI "\*L4\*O"
Messages being deferred (due to a host being down, and so on).
.LI "\*L5\*O"
Placing messages in the queue (normal event).
.LI "\*L6\*O"
Unusual but benign incidents (trying to process a locked file, and so on).
.LI "\*L9\*O"
Log internal queue ID to external message ID mappings.
This can be useful for tracing a message as it travels among several
hosts.
.LI "\*L12\*O"
Several messages that are of interest when debugging.
.LI "\*L16\*O"
Verbose information regarding the queue.
.LE
.PP
The default level is \*LOL9\*O.
.PP
\f(HBMessage Queue Options (\fP\*LO\*VOption\*O[\*VValue\*O]\f(HB)\fP
.PP
Three options adjust the way the \*Lsendmail \*Odaemon handles
the message queue.  To use this control line in the
\*Lsendmail.cf \*Oconfiguration file, use the format:
.iS
\*LO\*VOption\*O[\*VValue\*O]
.iE
.PP
The following \*VOptions\*O values are allowed:
.VL
.LI "\*Lc\*O"
Causes \*Lsendmail\*O to queue messages for that
mailer daemon without sending them if an outgoing mailer is marked
as expensive to use.  The queue can be run when costs are lower or
when the queue is large enough to send the message efficiently.
.LI "\*LQ\*VDirectory\*O"
Sets the directory in which to queue
messages. The directory will be created if it does not exist.
.LI "\*Ls\*O"
Enqueues before delivery, even when in immediate delivery
mode.
.LI "\*LY\*O"
The \*Lsendmail\*O daemon delivers each message
in the mail queue from a separate process.
This option is not required; it
can increase system overhead in this environment.
.LE
.PP
\f(HBMail Statistics File Option (\fP\*LO\*VOption\*O[\*VValue\*O]\f(HB)\fP
.PP
One option for the \*LO\*O control line changes the mail statistics
file.  Use the format:
.iS
\*LO\*VOption\*O[\*VValue\*O]
.iE
.PP
The following option is allowed:
.VL
.LI "\*LS\*VFile\*O"
Sets the mail statistics file to \*VFile\*O.
Statistics are only collected if the file exists.  This file must
be created by the user.  The recommended path for this is
\*L/var/adm/sendmail/sendmail.st\*O.  Statistics can be printed out using
\*L/usr/sbin/mailstats\*O.
.LE
.PP
\f(HBReturned Mail Option (\fPOP\*VAddress\*O\f(HB)\fP
.VL
.LI "\*LP\*VAddress\*O"
Identifies the person who is to receive a copy
of all returned mail.
.LE
.PP
\f(HBAlias Options (\fP\*LO\*VOption\*O[\*VValue\*O]\f(HB)\fP
.VL
.LI "\*LA\*VFile\*O"
Uses the named \*VFile\*O as the alias file.
.LI "\*Lm\*O"
If the sender uses an alias, and that sender is a member of the group
named by the alias, then also send to the sender.
.LE
.PP
\f(HBHeader Options (\fP\*LO\*VOption\*O[\*VValue\*O]\f(HB)\fP
.VL
.LI "\*Lf\*O"
Saves \*LFrom:\*O lines at the front of messages.
These lines are normally discarded.  Causes all other headers to be
regarded as part of the message body.
.LI "\*Lo\*O"
Indicates that this message can have old style headers.
Without this option, the message has new style headers (commas instead
of spaces between addresses).  If this option is set, an adaptive
algorithm correctly determines the header format in most cases.
.LE
.PP
\f(HBVerbose Mode Option (\fP\*LOv\*O\f(HB)\fP
.VL
.LI "\*Lv\*O"
Runs in verbose mode.
.LE
.PP
\f(HBSMPT Helpfile Option (\fP\*LH\*VFileName\*O\f(HB)\fP
.VL
.LI "\*LH\*VFileName\*O"
Specifies the name of the SMTP help file.
.LE
.PP
\f(HBID Options (\fP\*LO\*VOptionNumber\*O\f(HB)\fP
.PP
The following options allow you to set group and user IDs for
specific mailers.  Use the format:
.iS
\*LO\*VOptionNumber\*O
.iE
.PP
The following options are available to set group and user IDs:
.VL
.LI "\*Lg\*VNumber\*O"
Sets the default group ID to the value specified
by \*VNumber. \*O The \*Lsendmail\*O daemon uses this ID when
it calls mailers.
.LI "\*Lu\*VNumber\*O"
Sets the default user ID to the value specified
by \*VNumber.  \*OThe \*Lsendmail\*O daemon uses this ID when
it calls mailers.
.LE
.PP
\f(HBCharacter Interpretation Options (\fP\*LO\*VOption\*O[\*VValue\*O]\f(HB)\fP
.PP
The \*Lsendmail\*O daemon interprets certain characters as
having a special function. Use the format:
.iS
\*LO\*VOption\*O[\*VValue\*O]
.iE
.PP
You can set the interpretations with the following options:
.VL
.LI "\*LB\*VCharacter\*O"
Sets the blank substitution character
to the character specified in the \*Vc \*Oparameter.   The \*Lsendmail\*O
daemon replaces unquoted spaces in addresses with \*VCharacter\*O.
The supplied configuration file uses the . (dot) for \*VCharacter\*O.
.LI "\*Li\*O"
Does not interpret a . (dot) on a line by itself as
a message terminator. Removes the excess dot inserted by a remote
mailer at the beginning of a line if mail is received through SMTP.
In addition, if receiving mail through SMTP, any dot at the front
of a line followed by another dot is removed.  This is the opposite
of the action performed by the\*L X\*O mailer flag.
.LE
.PP
\f(HBRewrite Rules Options (\fP\*LO\*VOption\*O[\*VValue\*O]\f(HB)\fP
.PP
The following two options allow you to alter the \*Lsendmail \*Odaemon's
use of rewrite rules.  Use the format:
.iS
\*LO\*VOption\*O[\*VValue\*O]
.iE
.PP
The following options are available to the \*Lsendmail\*O daemon
for rewrite rules:
.VL
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Validates the right-hand side of alias rewrite rules
when the \*Lsendmail \*Odaemon performs the\*L newaliases\*O
function.
.LI "\*L-I\*O"
Indicate that \*Lsendmail\*O should use the Internet domain name
server if it can.
.LE
.PP
\f(HBError Processing Modes Option (\fP\*LOe\*VValue\*O\f(HB)\fP
.PP
The following options set the error-processing mode.  Use the
format:
.iS
\*LOe\*VValue\*O
.iE
.VL
.LI "\*L-eValue\*O"
Sets error processing to mode \*VValue\*O.  Valid modes are:
.LI "\*L-e\*O"
Mails the error message to the user's mailbox, but
always exits with a \*L0\*O (zero) exit status (normal return).
.LI "\*L-m\*O"
Mails the error message to the user's mailbox.
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Displays the error message on the terminal (default).
.LI "\*L-q\*O"
Discards the error message and returns the exit status
only.
.LE
.PP
\f(HBHost Network Name Option (\fP\*LON\*VNetworkName\*O\f(HB)\fP
.PP
Sets the name of your host network with an option in the \*LO\*O
control line in the \*Lsendmail.cf\*O file.
.VL
.LI "\*L-N\*VNetworkName\*O"
Sets the name of the host network to \*VNetworkName\*O.
The \*Lsendmail\*O daemon compares the argument of
an SMTP \*LHELLO\*O command to \*VHostName.NetworkName\*O (value
of \*VHostName\*O comes from the kernel).  If these values do not
match, it adds the\*V HostName.NetworkName\*O string to the \*LReceived:\*O
line in the message so that messages can be traced accurately.
.LE
.PP
\f(HBMacro Definition Option (\fP\*LO\*VMacroValue\*O\f(HB)\fP
.PP
You can use the \*LO \*Ocontrol line to define a macro.  Use
the following option to do so:
.VL
.LI "\*L-M\*VMacro Value\*O"
Defines \*VMacro\*O to have \*VValue\*O.
This option is normally used only from the \*Lsendmail\*O daemon
command line.
.LE
.PP
\f(HBConfiguration File Revision Level Option (\fP\*LDZ\*VNumber\*O\f(HB)\fP
.PP
The configuration file revision level macro, \*LZ\*O, helps
you track changes that you make to the \*Lsendmail\*O configuration
file.  Each time that you make a change to the \*Lsendmail \*Oconfiguration
file, you should also change the value of this macro.  Choose any
format for the number that you define.  For example, if the
\*Lsendmail\*O configuration file is at level 3.1, the following
entry appears in the \*Lsendmail \*Oconfiguration file:
.oS
DZ3.1
.oE
.PP
A text string can also be used for this macro:
.oS
DZversion_one
.oE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands: \*Lsendmail\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
