.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: services.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/21 15:25:17 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH services 4
.SH NAME
\*Lservices\*O \- Defines the sockets and protocols used for Internet services
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS 
\*L/etc/services
.sE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
The \*L/etc/services\*O file associates Internet service names and aliases 
with the port number and protocol used by the service.
Each service is listed in this file on a single line of the form:
.oS
\*VServiceName\ \ PortNumber/ProtocolName\ \ Aliases\*O
.oE
.PP 
The fields contain the following information:
.VL
.LI "\*VServiceName\*O"
The official Internet service name.
.LI "\*VPortNumber\*L/\*VProtocolName\*O
The socket port number used for the service and the
transport protocol used for the service.
.LI "\*VAliases\*O"
A list of unofficial service names.
.LE 
.PP 
Items on a line are separated by spaces or tabs.  Comments begin
with a \*L#\*O (number sign) and continue to the end of the line.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP 
Entries in the \*L/etc/services\*O file for the
\*Linetd\*O internal services
might look like this:
.oS
echo          7/tcp
echo          7/udp
discard       9/tcp      sink null
discard       9/udp      sink null
daytime      13/tcp
daytime      13/udp
chargen      19/tcp      ttytst source
chargen      19/tcp      ttytst source
ftp          21/tcp
time         37/tcp      timeserver
time         37/udp      timeserver
.oE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Functions: 
\*Lendservent\*O(3),
\*Lgetservbyname\*O(3), 
\*Lgetservbyport\*O(3), 
\*Lgetservent\*O(3), 
\*Lsetservent\*O(3) 
.PP 
The RFC923 specification.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
