.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: shells.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 09:22:59 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1986 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)shells.5	5.3 (Berkeley) 6/23/90
.\" 
.TH shells 4
.SH NAME
\*Lshells\*O \- Shell database
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "shell database"
.iX "databases" "shell"
.iX "files" "shells"
The
\*Lshells\*O
file contains a list of the shells on the system.
For each shell, the file should contain
a single line consisting of the
shell's path, relative to root.
.PP 
A # (number sign) indicates the beginning of a comment; subsequent
characters up to the end of the line are not interpreted by the
routines which search the file.
Blank lines are also ignored.
.SH FILES
\*L/etc/shells\*O
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lgetusershell\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
