.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: shmid_ds.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 23:12:09 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH shmid_ds 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lshmid_ds\*O \- Defines a shared memory region
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.sp .4v
\*L#include <sys/shm.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lstruct shmid_ds\*O{\*L
.nL
	\*Lstruct ipc_perm shm_perm\*O;\*L
.nL
	\*Lint shm_segsz\*O;\*L
.nL
	\*Lu_short shm_lpid\*O;\*L
.nL
	\*Lu_short shm_cpid\*O;\*L
.nL
	\*Lu_short shm_nattch\*O;\*L
.nL
	\*Ltime_t shm_atime\*O;\*L
.nL
	\*Ltime_t shm_dtime\*O;\*L
.nL
	\*Ltime_t shm_ctime\*O;\*L
.nL
};
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "shmid_ds structure"
The
\*Lshmid_ds\*O
structure defines a shared memory region associated with a shared
memory region ID.
There is one shared memory region per ID.  Collectively, the shared
memory regions are maintained in a shared memory table, with the shared
memory region IDs identifying the entries in the table.
.PP
The IPC permissions for the shared memory regions are implemented in a
separate, but associated,
\*Lipc_perm\*O
structure.
.PP
A shared memory region is created indirectly via the
\*Lshmget()\*O
call.  If
\*Lshmget()\*O
is called with a non-existent shared memory region ID, the kernel allocates a
new
\*Lshmid_ds\*O
structure, initializes it, and returns the ID that is to be
associated with the region.
.PP
The kernel allocates actual memory of
\*Lshm_segsz\*O
bytes only when a process attaches a region to its address space.
Attached regions are maintained in a separate region table.  The
entries in the shared memory table point to the associated attached
regions in the region table.  The same shared memory region can be
attached multiple times, by the same or different processes.  Each
attachment of the region creates a new entry in the region table.
.PP
After a process attaches a shared memory region, the region becomes
part of the process's virtual address space.  Processes access shared
memory regions by using the same machine instructions used to
access any virtual address.
.PP
.SH FIELDS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Lshm_perm\*O"
The
\*Lipc_perm\*O
structure that defines permissions for shared memory operations.  See NOTES.
.LI "\*Lshm_segsz\*O"
The size of the shared memory region, in bytes.
.LI "\*Lshm_cpid\*O"
The process ID of the process that created the shared memory region ID.
.LI "\*Lshm_lpid\*O"
The process ID of the last process that performed a
\*Lshmat()\*O
or
\*Lshmdt()\*O
operation on the shared memory region.
.LI "\*Lshm_nattch\*O"
The number of processes that currently have this region attached.
.LI "\*Lshm_atime\*O"
The time of the last
\*Lshmat()\*O
operation.
.LI "\*Lshm_dtime\*O"
The time of the last
\*Lshmdt()\*O
operation.
.LI "\*Lshm_ctime\*O"
The time of the last
\*Lshmctl()\*O
operation that changed a member of
the
\*Lshmid_ds\*O
structure.
.LE
.PP
.SH NOTES
.PP
The
\*Vshm_perm\*O
field identifies the associated
\*Lipc_perm\*O
structure that defines the permissions for operations on the shared
memory region.  The
\*Lipc_perm\*O
structure (from the \*Lsys/ipc.h\*O header file) is shown here.
.sp
.rS
.... Ignore Bold in iS !!!
\*Lstruct ipc_perm {
.nL
        ushort    uid;        /* owner's user id            */
.nL
        ushort    gid;        /* owner's group id           */
.nL
        ushort    cuid;       /* creator's user id          */
.nL
        ushort    cgid;       /* creator's group id         */
.nL
        ushort    mode;       /* access modes               */
.nL
        ushort    seq;        /* slot usage sequence number */
.nL
        key_t     key;        /* key                        */
.nL
};\*O
.rE
.PP
The
\*Lmode\*O
field
is a nine-bit field that contains the permissions for shared memory
operations.  The first three bits identify owner permissions; the
second three bits identify group permissions; and the last three bits
identify other permissions.  In each group, the first bit indicates read
permission; the second bit indicates write permission; and the third bit
is not used.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lshmat\*O(2),
\*Lshmdt\*O(2),
\*Lshmctl\*O(2),
\*Lshmget\*O(2)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
