.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: stanza.4,v $ $Revision: 3.3.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/21 15:31:56 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH stanza 4
.SH NAME
\*Lstanza\*O \- Stanza file format
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP
.sS 
\*Lstanza\*O
.sE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
A stanza file format is used in conjunction with the \*LlibAF\*O(3) stanza file
library.
.PP 
The stanza file syntax rules are as follows:
.ML
.LI
Separate entries by one or more blank lines.
.LI
A colon (\*L:\*O) terminates a entry name.
.LI
A newline terminates an attribute name and value pair.
.LI
Separate a attribute name and attribute value with an equal sign (\*L=\*O).
.LI
Separate more than one attribute value with a comma (\*L,\*O).
.LI
Entry names and attribute names can contain any printable character, except 
whitespace, a newline, or special characters, unless specified appropriately.
.LI
Entry attribute values can contain any printable character, except a newline
or special characters, unless specified appropriately.
.LI
Trailing blanks or tabs are allowed at the beginning or end of lines.
.LI
A number sign (\*L#\*O) at the beginning of a line indicates a comment.
Comments should be included only at the beginning or the end of an entry.
.LE 
.PP 
The syntax for a stanza file entry is as follows:
.PP
.sS
\*Ventry_name\*O:
         \*VAttribute1_name\*O = \*VAttribute1_value\*O
         \*VAttribute2_name\*O = \*VAttribute2_value\*O
         \*VAttribute3_name\*O = \*VAttribute3_value1\*O, \*VAttribute3_value2
 . 
 .
 .
.sE
.PP 
The \*Ventry_name\*O variable specifies the entry name.  The attributes
for the entry are specified with the \*VAttribute1_name\*O, 
\*VAttribute2_name\*O, and \*VAttribute3_name\*O variables.  The values
for the attributes are specified with the \*VAttribute1_value\*O, 
\*VAttribute2_value\*O, \*VAttribute3_value1\*O, and
\*VAttribute3_value2\*O variables.  
.PP 
Several special quoting characters allow attribute values to contain
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Corrected a typo per QAR 6104.
special values and data representations.  If you specify a quoting character,
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
surround the attribute value with quotes.  For example, 
to specify an octal value use the slash character:
.oS
\*L\\007\*O
.oE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands: \*Lsysconfigdb\*O(8), \*Lcfgmgr\*O(8)
.PP 
Functions: \*LlibAF\*O(3)
.PP 
Files:  \*L/etc/sysconfigtab\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
