.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Status.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 16:42:09 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
.\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail 
.\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH Status 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*LStatus\*O, \*L.Status\*O \- Contains information about the status of the \*Luucp\*O program contacts with remote systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Status
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "Status" "uucp status file"
.iX "uucp" "status file"
The \*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Status\*O directory contains information
about the status of the \*Luucp\*O program contacts
with remote systems.
.PP
For each remote system contacted, the \*Luucp\*O program creates a file
in the \*L.Status\*O directory called \*VSystemName\*O, where
the \*VSystemName\*O file is named for the remote system being
contacted.  In the \*L.Status/\*VSystemName\*O file, the \*Luucp\*O
program stores the following information:
.ML
.LI
Time of the last call in seconds
.LI
Status of the last call
.LI
Number of retries
.LI
Retry time, in seconds, of the next call
.LE
.PP
The times given in the \*L.Status/\*VSystemName\*O
file are expressed as seconds elapsed since midnight of January 1,
1970 (the output of a \*Ltime\*O system call).  Thus, the retry
time is in the form of the number of seconds that must have expired
since midnight of January 1, 1970 before the system can retry.  To
make this entry in the \*L.Status/\*VSystemName\*O file, \*Luucp\*O
performs a \*Ltime\*O system call, adds 600 seconds, and places
the resulting number of seconds in the file.
If the last call was unsuccessful, the \*Luucico\*O daemon will wait
until the time specified by the retry time before attempting to contact
the system again.
.\" Not in OSF/1? (rcb)
.\" The retry time in the \*L.Status/\*VSystemName \*Ofile
.\" can be overridden using the \*L-r\*O flag of the
.\" \*Luutry\*O or \*LUutry\*O command.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Daemons: \*Luucico\*O(8)
.\" Not in OSF/1? (rcb)
.\" .PP
.\" Commands: \*Luutry\*O, \*LUutry\*O
.PP
Functions: \*Ltime\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
