.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: stl_ctrl.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/17 19:37:26 $
.\"
.TH stl_ctrl 4
.SH NAME
\*Lstl_ctrl\*O \- Software subset control files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "stl_ctrl file"
.iX "software subset control file"
.iX "software kits" "subset control files for"
Each software subset that is distributed for the
\*Lsetld\*O
command has an associated
\*Vcontrol\*O
file.  This control file is created by the
\*Lkits\*O(1)
utility.  The control file's name consists of the subset name with the
string
\*L\&.ctrl\*O
for a suffix.  The control file contains attribute information for
the subset.  Once the subset has been installed on a system, the
control file is placed in the
\*Lusr/.smdb.\*O
directory.
.PP
The attribute definitions in the file are stored one per line as
attribute name/value pairs separated by equals signs (=).  The
attributes are:
.TP
NAME
The name (text description) of the product of which this subset is a
component, as given by the
\*LNAME\*O
attribute defined in the product attributes section of the key file.
.TP
DESC
The text description of the subset, as given in the subset descriptor
for this subset in the key file.
.TP
NVOLS
Obsolete.
.TP
MTLOC
Two integers separated by a colon (:).  These integers are used by the
\*Lsetld\*O
utility to find the subset on tape media.  The first number specifies
the volume in the product tape set; the second is the location within
that volume.  The values established for this attribute by the
\*Lkits\*O
utility are placeholders.  The actual values are generated as the
subset is being written to tape by the
\*Lgentapes\*O
command.
.TP
DEPS
Reserved by Digital.
.\" The dependency list for this subset. The information for this
.\" list is taken from the subset descriptor in the key file.
.TP
FLAGS
The value specified by the flags field of this subset's record in the
key file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example shows the contents of
\*LOATDCB100.ctrl\*O,
the control file for a hypothetical subset:
.oS
NAME='Orpheus Authoring Tools OATDCB100'
DESC='Document Building Tools'
NVOLS=1:2
MTLOC=1:1
DEPS="."
FLAGS=0
.oE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
gendisk(1), gentapes(1), kits(1), stl_key(4), setld(8)
.PP
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
