.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: stl_scp.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/17 19:47:03 $
.\" 
.TH stl_scp 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lstl_scp\*O \- setld subset control program conventions
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "kits" "subset compression flag file format"
.iX "setld" "subset compression flag file format"
Each software subset that is distributed for the
\*Lsetld\*O(8)
command can have an associated
\*Vsubset control program\*O.
These programs perform the application-specific management operations
that configure the subset into the system.  Because subset control
programs must be executed during
installation to non-native file hierarchies, they must be written in an
architecture-neutral language.  Because these programs may also be
required to run while the system is in the single-user run state, the
interpreter must not use shared libraries.  The use of
\*L/sbin/sh\*O
is strongly recommended.
.PP
As subsets are installed and deleted, they pass through several system
management states.
.PP
Software is in the NEW state immediately after being extracted from the
distribution media and verified.  Software in this state is exactly as
it was prepared for distribution by the software vendor.
.PP
The subset control program is responsible for placing the software in
the PROTOTYPE state at the request of
\*Lsetld\*O.
Software in this state is configured for use at a particular site.
All of the software remains sharable but has undergone some level of
customization.
.PP
Software becomes runnable on a particular system and ceases to be
sharable after it has been placed in the CONFIGURED state by the
subset control program, again at the request of
\*Lsetld\*O.
.PP
Subset control programs are executed by
\*Lsetld\*O
to perform specific requested operations.  Before executing a subset
control program,
\*Lsetld\*O
sets the environment variable
\*LACT\*O
to an action value.  The subset control program is expected to inspect
this variable and any command-line arguments to determine which actions
to perform.  The action values, the command-line arguments, and the
behavior that
\*Lsetld\*O
expects are as follows:
.TP 8
C
Configure subset
.IP "" 8
The first command-line argument is a configuration message for the
subset.  The subset control program can interpret this message as it
chooses.  There are two reserved subset messages:
.RS 8
.TP 9
INSTALL
Perform any management operations required to change the subset from
the PROTOTYPE state to the CONFIGURED state.  Subset control programs
called to perform this action must assume that the
\*L/usr\*O
file system is write locked and that the currently visible execution
context (contents of
\*L/dev/kmem\*O
and so forth) is the same as that in which the application will
execute.
.TP 9
DELETE
Perform any management operations required to change the subset from
the CONFIGURED state to the PROTOTYPE state.  The execution environment
is identical to that for C, INSTALL
.RE
.TP 8
M
Menu Request
.IP "" 8
The first argument is one of
\*L\-l\*O
or
\*L\-x\*O
and specifies whether the user is installing or extracting software
from the media.
.IP "" 8
Determine if the subset is suitable for presentation to the user in the
subset selection menu.  If the subset is to be presented, the subset
control program should return exit status 0.  If the subset is not to
be presented, the subset control program should return a nonzero
status.
.TP 8
PRE_D
Prepare for Deletion
.IP "" 8
The subset is about to be deleted from the system.  Perform any
management operations required to chang the subset from the PROTOTYPE
state to the NEW state.  A nonzero return status can be returned to
indicate that the subset should not be deleted.
.TP 8
PRE_L
Prepare for Load
.IP "" 8
The subset is about to be loaded onto the system.  Verify that the
system is ready for the subset to loaded from the installation media.
A nonzero exit status can be returned to indicate that the subset
should not be installed.
.br
.ne 9P
.TP 8
POST_D
Post Deletion Cleanup
.IP "" 8
The subset control program should perform any management operations
required to return the system to the state that it was in prior to
installation of the subset.
.TP 8
POST_L
Post Load Configuration
.IP "" 8
The subset has been loaded from the media and is on the system in the
NEW state.  The subset control program must change the subset from the
NEW state to  the PROTOTYPE state.
.TP 8
V
Verify Subset
.IP "" 8
The subset control program should verify the integrity of the
subset.  If the subset is provided with an Installation Verification
Procedure (IVP) the subset control program should execute the IVP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lsetld\*O(8)
.PP
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
