.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: stl_key.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/10/14 14:37:18 $
.\"
.TH stl_key 4
.SH NAME
\*Lstl_key\*O \- setld kit manufacturing key files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "kits" "manufacturing key file format"
.iX "setld" "kits manufacturing key file format"
Each software product that is distributed as subsets for the
\*Lsetld\*O(8)
command has an associated
\*Vkey\*O
file.  The key file's name consists of the product's unique 3-letter
name and a 3-digit version number with the string
\*L\&.k\*O
for a suffix.  The key file is used by the software kitting program
\*Lkits\*O(1)
in producing software distribution packages.
.PP
A key file has a global data section and a subset descriptor section.
The sections are separated by a line containing only two percent signs
(\&%\&%).
.PP
The global section specifies the product-level attributes of the
product.  In this section, lines that begin with number signs (#) are
comments and are ignored by the
\*Lkits\*O
utility.  Attributes are specified as name/value pairs separated by
equals signs (=).  There must be no white space surrounding the equals
sign.  There are four mandatory attributes and two optional attributes.
Attributes must have non-null values.  The attributes are:
.TP 10
NAME
Mandatory.  Specifies the name of the product.  The value for
\*VNAME\*O
is a text string of up to 40 characters.  If the string contains blank
spaces, it must be enclosed in apostrophes ('\^').
.TP
CODE
Mandatory.  Specifies the 3-character product code for the product, for
example, OAT.
.TP
VERS
Mandatory.  Specifies the 3-digit version code for the product, for
example, 100.
.TP
MI
Mandatory.  Specifies the pathname of the master inventory file for the
product.
.TP
ROOT
Optional.  A single-digit integer that is set to 1 if the product is
the base operating system.  In all other cases, this flag must be a
zero (0).  If missing, this attribute defaults to zero.
.TP
COMPRESS
Optional.  A single-digit integer that is set to 1 to create compressed
subset files using the
\*Lcompress\*O(1)
utility, thereby saving space on the distribution media.  To suppress
compression, this attribute is a zero (0).  If missing, this attribute
defaults to zero.
.PP
The subset descriptor section contains one subset descriptor line for
each subset in the product.  Comments are not permitted in this
section.
.PP
A subset descriptor contains subset-specific attributes in four fields
separated by TAB characters.  These fields are:
.TP 14
Subset name
A character string up to 15 characters in length, composed of the
3-letter product code (for example, OAT), a mnemonic identifying the
subset (for example, DCB), and the 3-digit version code (for example,
100).  All letters in the subset name must be uppercase.
.TP 14
Reserved
This field must be a single period.
.TP 14
Flags
A 16-bit unsigned integer
.IP "" 14
Bit 0 is the ``sticky bit,'' indicating when set that the subset cannot
be removed.
.IP "" 14
Bit 1 indicates when set that the subset is optional.
.IP "" 14
Bit 2 indicates when set that the subset is updatable.
.IP "" 14
Bits 3 to 7 are reserved.
.IP "" 14
Bits 8 to 15 are undefined.
.TP 14
Description
A short description of the subset, delimited by single quotation
marks ('\^'); for example, 'Document\ Building\ Tools'
.PP
The subset descriptors must be listed in the order in which the subsets
are to be installed by
\*Lsetld\*O.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Comments in the subset descriptor section will cause serious problems
when encountered by the
\*Lkits\*O
program.
.PP
TAB formatting in the subset descriptors is tightly enforced by the
\*Lkits\*O
program.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example illustrates the key file for a hypothetical
product kit:
.oS
#       Key file for the Orpheus Document Building Tools kit
#
#       Product-level attributes.
#
NAME='Orpheus Authoring Tools'
CODE=OAT
VERS=100
MI=OAT00.mi
ROOT=0
COMPRESS=1
#
#       Subset definitions follow.
#
\&%\&%
OATDCB100       .       0       'Document Building Tools'
OATDCBDOC100    .       2       'Document Tools Documentation'
.oE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  kits(1), setld(8)
.PP
File formats:  stl_comp(4), stl_ctrl(4), stl_image(4), stl_mi(4)
.PP
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
