.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: stl_mi.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/17 19:45:25 $
.\" 
.TH stl_mi 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lstl_mi\*O \- software distribution master inventory files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "kits" "master inventory file format"
.iX "setld" "master inventory file format"
Each software product that is distributed as subsets for the
\*Lsetld\*O(8)
command has an associated
\*Vmaster inventory\*O
file.  The master inventory file's name consists of the product's
unique 3-letter name and a 3-digit version number with the string
\*L\&.mi\*O
for a suffix.  The master inventory file is used by the software
kitting program
\*Lkits\*O(1)
in producing software distribution packages.
.PP
A master inventory file contains one ASCII record, describing
vendor-specified attribute information, for each file in the product
kit.  Each record is composed of three fields which must be separated
by TAB characters.  The fields are:
.TP 10
Flags
A 16-bit unsigned integer.
.IP "" 10
Bit 0 is the
\*Lp\*O
(precedence) bit; when it is set, an existing copy of the
named file takes precedence over a copy in the kit.  It is usually set
for log files required by applications.
Bit 1 is the
\*Vv\*O
(volatility) bit; when it is set, changes to the existing
copy of the file can occur during kit installation.  It is usually set
for log files required by applications.  The remaining bits are
reserved.
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.RS 5
These bit settings are applicable only during subset updating; for a
normal kit installation, they are ignored.
.sp 6p
.RE
.TP 10
Pathname
The dot-relative (./) pathname of the file described by this record.
Each pathname must appear only once in the master inventory file.
Pathnames must begin with a period (.).  Records must be sorted in
ascending ASCII sequence on this field.
.TP 10
Subset
The name of the subset containing the file.  Standard system
directories are not included in subsets; they are represented by the
keyword RESERVED in place of a subset name.  Files that exist in the
product hierarchy but are not distributed as part of any subset have a
minus sign (\-) in this field.  Files that share a gnode (links) must
all be included in the same subset.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
This example shows a section of the master inventory for a hypothetical
layered product kit:
.oS
0    .       RESERVED
0    ./opt/usr      RESERVED
0    ./opt/usr/OATDCB100      OATDCB100
0    ./opt/usr/OATDCB100/bin  OATDCB100
0    ./opt/usr/OATDCB100/bin/attr     OATDCB100
0    ./opt/usr/OATDCB100/bin/dcb.spr  OATDCB100
0    ./opt/usr/OATDCB100/bin/dcb_defaults     OATDCB100
0    ./opt/usr/OATDCB100/bin/dcb_diag.sed     OATDCB100
0    ./opt/usr/OATDCB100/bin/docbld   OATDCB100
0    ./opt/usr/OATDCB100/bin/unstamp  OATDCB100
0    ./opt/usr/OATDCB100/lib  OATDCB100
0    ./opt/usr/OATDCB100/lib/br       OATDCB100
0    ./opt/usr/OATDCB100/lib/br/README.dcb    OATDCB100
0    ./opt/usr/OATDCB100/lib/br/attr.1        OATDCBDOC100
0    ./opt/usr/OATDCB100/lib/br/dcb.ps        OATDCBDOC100
0    ./opt/usr/OATDCB100/lib/br/docbld.1      OATDCBDOC100
0    ./opt/usr/OATDCB100/lib/br/docbld.5      OATDCBDOC100
0    ./opt/usr/OATDCB100/lib/br/unstamp.1     OATDCBDOC100
0    ./opt/usr/OATDCB100/lib/doclib   OATDCB100
0    ./opt/usr/OATDCB100/lib/doclib/templates OATDCB100
0    ./opt/usr/OATDCB100/lib/doclib/templates/conv.braces    OATDCB100
0    ./opt/usr/OATDCB100/lib/doclib/templates/conv.command   OATDCB100
  . 
  .
  .
.oE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Linvcutter\*O(1), \*Lkits\*O(1),
.\"     iff(8),
\*Lsetld\*O(8)
.PP
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
