.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: stl_inv.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/17 19:41:59 $
.\"
.TH stl_inv 4
.SH NAME
\*Lstl_inv\*O \- setld inventory file format
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "software subset" "inventory file format"
.iX "inventory file format" "software subset"
Each software product that is distributed as subsets for the
\*Lsetld\*O(8)
command has an associated
\*Vinventory\*O
file.  This inventory file is created by the
\*Lkits\*O(1)
utility.  The inventory file's name consists of the product's unique
3-letter name with the string
\*L\&.inv\*O
for a suffix.  The inventory file contains one record for each subset
in the kit.  Each record contains the following twelve fields in order,
separated by TAB characters:
.TP 10
Flags
The per-file software management flag, a 16-bit unsigned integer
.TP 10
Size
The actual number of bytes in the file
.TP 10
Checksum
The modulo-65536 checksum of the file.  Hard links, directories, FIFOs,
and sockets have 00000 in this field.
.TP 10
uid
The user ID of the file's owner
.TP 10
gid
The group ID of the file's owner
.TP 10
Mode
The 6-digit octal representation of the file's mode
.TP 10
Date
The file's last modification date
.TP 10
Revision
The version code of the product that includes the file
.TP 10
Type
A letter that describes the file:
.RS 10
.IP b 5
Block device
.IP c 5
Character device
.IP d 5
Directory containing one or more files
.IP f 5
Regular file.  For regular files with a link count greater than one,
see file type
\*Ll\*O.
.IP l 5
Hard link.  There are other files in the same inventory which have the
same inum.  The first of these files in ASCII collating sequence is
listed in the referent field.
.IP p 5
Named pipe (FIFO)
.IP s 5
Symbolic link
.IP = 5
UNIX domain socket
.RE
.TP 10
Pathname
The dot-relative (./) pathname of the file
.TP 10
Link-to
For file types
\*Ll\*O
and
\*Ls\*O,
the path to which the file is linked; for types
\*Lb\*O
and
\*Lc\*O,
an integer representing the major and minor numbers of the device; for
all other types,
\*Lnone\*O
.TP 10
Subset name
The name of the subset containing the file
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Fields must be separated by TAB characters.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  setld(8)
.PP
Functions:  stat(2)
.PP 
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
