.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: streamadm.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/21 15:37:00 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH streamadm 4
.SH NAME
\*Lstreamadm\*O \- Defines configuration information about a STREAMS module or driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L#include <sys/stream.h>
.nL
struct streamadm {
.nL
	uint \*Vsa_version\*L ;
.nL
	uint \*Vsa_flags\*L ;
.nL
	char \*Vsa_name\*L [FMNAMESZ+1];
.nL
	caddr_t \*Vsa_ttys\*L ;
.nL
	uint \*Vsa_sync_level\*L ;
.nL
	caddr_t \*Vsa_sync_info\*L ;
.nL
	};\*O
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vsa_version\*O"
Version identifier for the
\*Lstreamadm\*O
structure.  Used for compatibility reasons.
.LI "\*Vsa_flags\*O"
A flag indicating the type of STREAMS.  Possible values are
.VL 10m
.LI "\*LSTR_IS_DEVICE\*O"
For a STREAMS driver.
.LI "\*LSTR_IS_MODULE\*O"
For a STREAMS module.
.LE
.LI "\*Vsa_name\*O"
The unique name of the module or driver.  Modules and drivers share a
common name space.  The maximum length for a name is set by
FMNAMESZ.
.LI "\*Vsa_ttys\*O"
A pointer to the
\*Lttys()\*O
routine that will be used by the module or driver.  When the module
or driver is added via
\*Lstrmod_add()\*O,
this pointer will be placed in the
\*Vd_ttys\*O
field in the
\*Lcdevsw\*O
structure.  If the driver is not a
\*Ltty\*O
driver, this field is set to NULL.
.LI "\*Vsa_sync_level\*O"
The synchronization level for the module or driver.  This field is
relevant on multiprocessors.
Some possible values are:
.VL 10m
.LI "\*LSQLVL_GLOBAL\*O"
Global synchronization.
.LI "\*LSQLVL_FAMILY\*O"
Module family synchronization.
.LI "\*LSQLVL_MODULE\*O"
Module synchronization.
.LI "\*LSQLVL_QUEUE_PAIR\*O"
Queue pair synchronization.
.LI "\*LSQLVL_QUEUE\*O"
Single queue synchronization.
.LE
.LI "\*Vsa_sync_info\*O"
A pointer to synchronization data.  This field is relevant if
\*Vsa_sync_level\*O
is SQLVL_FAMILY.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "streamadm"
.PP
The
\*Lstreamadm\*O
structure defines additional configuration information for a STREAMS
module or driver.  The operating system configuration procedure
uses this structure in addition to the traditional
\*Lstreamtab\*O
structure when configuring a STREAMS module or driver.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Interfaces:
\*Lstrmod_add\*O(2)
.\".PP
.\"Data Structures:
.\"\*Lcdevsw\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
