.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: strsetup.conf.4,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/17 19:48:53 $
.\"
.TH strsetup.conf 4
.PP
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lstrsetup.conf\*O \- Configuration file for STREAMS drivers
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "strsetup.conf file"
.iX "STREAMS" "strsetup.conf file"
The
\*L/etc/strsetup.conf\*O
file is the configuration file for STREAMS drivers.
The \*Lstrsetup.conf\*O file specifies one or more character special files
(or nodes) to be created when a STREAMS driver is configured into the kernel.
If the driver is not configured, no character special files are created for it.
If an old version of the file exists, the
\*Lstrsetup\*O command removes it before the new one is created.
.PP
Each entry
in the \*L/etc/strsetup.conf\*O file specifies a driver name, device special file name, file mode and
minor number.  See the EXAMPLES section for a sample \*Lstrsetup.conf\*O file.
.PP
Each line in the file is of the form:
.sp
.sS
\*Vdriver_name filename file_mode minor_number\*O
.sE
.PP
The fields have the following meanings:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vdriver_name\*O"
Specifies the name of the driver
as reported by the \*Lstrsetup \-c\*O command.
This field is used to match the names read by the
\*Lstrsetup\*O command from the kernel and
must match exactly (the match is case sensitive).
.LI "\*Vfilename\*O"
Specifies the full path name of the character special file
or files to be created when \*Vdriver_name\*O is
configured into the kernel.
The filename can contain one conversion specifier in the style of \*Lprintf\*O(3).
This conversion is used to include a minor device number
in the filename.  The permitted conversions are the following:
.VL 4m
.LI "%d"
Prints the minor number as a signed decimal
.LI "%x"
Prints the minor number as a hexadecimal with lower case letters
.LI "%X"
Prints the minor number hexadecimal with uppercase letters
.LI "%o"
Prints octal
.LI "%u"
Prints the minor number as an unsigned decimal
.LI "%i"
Prints the minor number as a signed decimal
.LE
.sp 0.4v
Note that you must use a double percent sign (%\&%\&) to include a percent sign
in the filename.  Optionally, each of these conversions
can include a specification for some number of leading 0's.
.sp 0.4v
This is done by following the % with a 0 and one or more
digits specifying the total number of digits to be
printed.  The 0 must appear after the %.  See the
\*Lprintf\*O(3) reference page for more information.
.sp 0.4v
Any directories in the path of the filename that do not exist
are created.
.LI "\*Vfile_mode\*O"
Specifies the file mode assigned to the file when it is created.
The \*Vfile_mode\*O field must always be in octal.
The file is always created as a character special file.
.LI "\*Vminor_number\*O"
Specifies the minor device number field.  The \*Lstrsetup\*O command
reads the major device numbers from the kernel.  This field indicates
to the \*Lstrsetup\*O command how to assign minor device numbers.
This \*Vminor_number\*O field can contain
the one of the following values:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lclone\*O"
Indicates that the device should be created as a clone
device.  In this case the major number
becomes that of the special \*Lclone\*O pseudo-device driver
and the minor device number becomes the device's major number.
Note that the word clone must be lowercase.
.LI "\*VN\*O"
Creates a single device with the minor device number \*VN\*O.
Note that \*VN\*O is a decimal number.
.LI "\*VM-N\*O"
Create M-N nodes with the devices' major numbers and
minor numbers between M and N.  Note that \*VM\*O and \*VN\*O are decimal numbers.
When a range of minor numbers is specified, a filename
conversion specifier can be used to make certain that each node created is
unique.
.LE
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following is a sample \*L/etc/strsetup.conf\*O file:
.oS
                 special
driver name      filename             file mode       minor number
ptm             /dev/ptmx               0666            clone
log             /dev/streams/log        0666            clone
nuls            /dev/streams/nuls       0666            clone
echo            /dev/streams/echo       0666            clone
sad             /dev/sad/admin          0666            clone
pts             /dev/pts/%d             0666            0-127
.oE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/etc/strsetup.conf\*O"
STREAMS setup configuration file
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:
\*Lstrsetup\*O(8)
.br
\*ENetwork Programmer's Guide\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
