.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: svc.conf.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/04 17:51:55 $
.\" 
.TH svc.conf 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsvc.conf\*O \- Database service selection configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\" NOTE:  had to remove 'and security' from the NAME section.
.\" These words should follow "configuration file" when
.\" security is added to DEC OSF/1.
.iX "svc.conf" "file"
.iX "database service selection" "svc.conf file"
The \*L/etc/svc.conv\*O
file is a mandatory system file that allows you to select the
desired services on a per database basis.
.\"It also allows you to select security parameters.
The default \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O file has \*Llocal\*O
as the service selected for each database.  This file must be modified when
adding or removing a naming service, such as the Network Information
Service or BIND.  The valid services are \*Llocal\*O, \*Lyp\*O, and \*Lbind\*O.
Modifications to the \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O file can be made with an
editor or the \*L/usr/sbin/svcsetup\*O
command for database service selection.
.\"They can be made with the
.\"\*L/usr/etc/secsetup\*O command for security parameter selection.
Changes take effect immediately.
.PP
\*LNOTE:\*O
The recommended configuration is that you have \*Llocal\*O
as the first entry for all databases.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
White space is allowed only after commas or newlines.
.PP
You must have \*Llocal\*O as the first entry for the \*Lpasswd\*O and
\*Lhosts\*O databases.
.PP
You must have \*Lyp\*O as the entry for the \*Lnetgroup\*O database.
.\".PP
.\"You must have either \*Llocal\*O or \*Lbind\*O as the entry for the \*Lauth\*O
.\"database.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following is a sample \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O file:
.oS
aliases=yp
.\"auth=local,bind
group=local,yp
hosts=local,bind,yp
netgroup=yp
networks=bind
passwd=local,bind
protocols=local,bind
rpc=local,bind
services=local
.sp
.\"PASSLENMIN=6
.\"PASSLENMAX=16
.\"SOFTEXP=604800         # 7 days in seconds
SECLEVEL=BSD           # for backwards compatibility ONLY
.oE
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/etc/svc.conf\*O
.br
\*L/usr/sys/include/sys/svcinfo.h\*O
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lsvcsetup\*O(8)
.\"\*Lgetsvc\*O(3),
.\".br
.\"%\&%\&DNBIND/Hes%\&%\&
.\".br
.\"%\&%\&DNYP%\&%\&
.EQ
delim off
.EN
