.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: syms.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/17 18:40:12 $
.\" 
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright Unpublished, MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.  All Rights |
.\" | Reserved.  This software contains proprietary and confidential |
.\" | information of MIPS and its suppliers.  Use, disclosure or     |
.\" | reproduction is prohibited without the prior express written   |
.\" | consent of MIPS.                                               |
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Header: /usr/doc/osf1doc/refpages/rcs/src/BASE/DEC/man4/syms.4,v 3.2.4.2 1993/12/17 18:40:12 Blaise_Corcoran Exp $
.TH syms 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsyms\*O \- Symbol table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "symbol table"
.sS
\*L#include < sym.h>\*O
.br
\*L#include < symconst.h>\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The symbol table departs from the standard COFF symbol table. The symbol
table consists of many tables unbundling information usually found in the one
COFF symbol table.  The symbol table should be viewed as a hand-crafted,
network-style database designed for space and access efficiency.
.PP
The following structures or tables appear in the symbol table:
.sp
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l.
_
.sp 4p
Table@Contents
.sp 4p
_
.sp 4p
Symbolic header@Sizes and locations of all other tables
.sp 4p
File descriptors@Per file locations for other tables
.sp 4p
Procedure descriptors@T{
Frame information and location of procedure info
T}
.sp 4p
Local symbols@T{
Local type, local variable, and scoping info
T}
.sp 4p
Local strings@T{
String space for local symbols
T}
.sp 4p
Line numbers@T{
Compacted by encoding, contains a line per instruction
T}
.sp 4p
Relative file desc.@T{
Indirection for inter-file symbol access
T}
.sp 4p
Optimization symbols@T{
To be defined
T}
.sp 4p
Auxiliary symbols@T{
Variable data type information for each local symbol
T}
.sp 4p
External symbols@T{
Loader symbols (global text and data)
T}
.sp 4p
External strings@T{
String space for external symbols
T}
.sp 4p
Dense numbers@T{
(File, symbol) index pairs for compiler use
T}
.sp 4p
_
.TE
.PP
External and local symbols contain the standard concept of a ``symbol'' as
follows:
.PP
.oS
.ps -3
struct
{
    long      iss;      /* index into string space */
    long      value;    /* address, size, etc., depends on sc and st */
    unsigned  st: 6;    /* symbol type (e.g. local, param, etc.) */
    unsigned  sc: 5;    /* storage class (e.g. text, bss, etc.) */
    unsigned  reserved: 1;
    unsigned  index;    /* index to symbol or auxiliary tables */
};
.ps +3
.oE
.PP
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lldfcn\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
