.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Systems.4,v $ $Revision: 1.1.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/07 15:08:04 $
.\"
.TH Systems 4
.SH "NAME"
\*LSystems\*O \- Contains information about remote systems that can be contacted using the \*Luucp\*O program.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "Systems file"
.iX "uucp program" "with Systems file"
.sS
\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O file contains an entry for each
remote system that the local system can communicate with using \*Luucp\*O.
The \*Luucp\*O program cannot establish a connection with a remote system
unless it has an entry in the \*LSystems file\*O.  Systems files must
be configured on each system running the \*Luucp\*O program.
.PP
Note that only someone with root user authority can edit
the \*LSystems\*O file, which is owned by the \*Luucp\*O login ID.
.SS "Fields in the Systems File"
The \*LSystems\*O file should contain a description of each system that
the local system can establish a remote connection with.
Each line in the \*LSystems\*O file includes the following fields:
.PP
.oS
\*Vsys_name Time Caller Class Phone Login\*O
.oE
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vsys_name\*O"
The name of the remote system.  In general, names should be a
maximum of seven characters in length and must be unique.  To
insure compatibility with some older systems, names should only
include lowercase characters and digits.
.IP
There can be more than one entry for each \*Vsys_name\*O.  Each
additional entry for a specific system represents an additional
communications path that \*Luucp\*O will sequentially try if
communication cannot be established using an earlier entry.
.LI "\*VTime\*O"
Specifies the times when the local system can call the remote
system.  This field consists of three subfields:  \*Vday\*O, for
the day of the week (required), \*Vtime\*O, for the time of the day when the
system can call (optional), and \*Vretry\*O, for
the minimum retry period in minutes (optional).  The \*Vday\*O and
\*Vtime\*O subfields are not separated with spaces.  The \*Vretry\*O field
is separated by a semicolon.
.IP
The \*Vday\*O subfield is specified using the following keywords:
.VL
.LI "\*LAny\*O"
system can call on any day
.LI "\*LNever\*O"
system can never call the remote system.  The
remote system will have to call the local system.
.LI "\*LWK\*O"
any weekday.  You can also use \*LMo\*O, \*LTu\*O, \*LWe\*O, \*LTh\*O,
\*LFr\*O, and \*LSa\*O, for example \*LMoWeFr\*O, for Monday,
Wednesday, and Friday.
.LE
.IP
The \*Vday\*O subfield is required, unlike the \*Vtime\*O
and \*Vretry\*O fields.
.IP
The \*Vtime\*O subfield is specified contains two times, in 24-hour
clock notation, which specify a range of times.  Leave this
subfield blank if the remote system can be called at any time
during the day.  For example, if a remote system can only be
called during the morning, enter \*L0800-1200\*O in the subfield.
.IP
The \*Vtime\*O subfield can also specify when the remote system cannot
be reached if the time range entered spans \*L0000\*O.  For example,
\*L0800-0600\*O means the remote system can be contacted at any time,
except between 6:00 am and 8:00 am.
.IP
Multiple time fields can be included by using a comma as a
separator.  For example, \*LWK1800-0600,Sa,Su\*O means the remote
system can be contacted at any time on a week day except between
6:00 pm. and 6:00 am, and at any time on Saturday and Sunday.
.IP
The optional \*Vretry\*O subfield, specifies the minimum
time, in minutes, before \*Luucp\*O can try again to contact a remote system
after an unsuccessful attempt.
This subfield is separated from the rest of the string
by a semicolon.  For example, \*LAny0800-1200;3\*O specifies that
\*Luucp\*O should continue to contact the remote system at 3-minute
intervals if the first attempt fails.
.LI "\*LCaller\*O"
Specifies the type of connection to be used to communicate with
the remote system.  Use the ACU keyword for a telephone connection
using a modem or TCP (for a connection using TCP/IP).
Alternatively, \*Vsys_name\*O can be used for a hardwired connection
.IP
If TCP is used, there is a subfield which specifies a conversion
protocol.  The default is the \*Lg\*O protocol.  Other protocols are
\*Le\*O, \*Lf\*O, and \*Lt\*O which are faster and more efficient
than the \*Lg\*O protocol.  To specify a particular protocol,
place a comma and the protocol letter after TCP, for
example \*LTCP,f\*O.
.IP
The entry specified in this field must have a corresponding
entry in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O file.
.LI "\*VClass\*O"
The speed in bits per second for the device.  Unless it is
necessary to use a specific baud rate, use the keyword \*LAny\*O.
This instructs \*Luucp\*O to match a speed that is appropriate for the
ACU of system connection specified in the \*VCaller\*O field.
.IP
For a telephone connection, the rate you enter in this field
should correspond to a rate specified in the \*VClass\*O field of an
entry in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O file.
.IP
For a TCP connection, do not specify a baud rate.  Instead, use
a hyphen, \*L-\*O, as a placeholder.
.LI "\*VPhone\*O"
The phone number used to reach the remote system.  For a hardwired
or TCP connection, use a hyphen, \*L-\*O, as a placeholder.
.IP
The phone number can be the complete phone number of the remote
system or a combination of an alphabetic abbreviation that
represents the dialing prefix and the remainder of the
number; see \*LDialcodes\*O(4).
.IP
An equal sign, \*L=\*O, in the phone number indicates a wait for a secondary
dial tone.  This may be required when a special number sequence must
be used to access an outside line, for example.  For modems
that do not have the ability to detect a secondary dial tone,
the \*L=\*O sign generates a pause instead.  A hyphen, \*L-\*O, in
the phone number generates a 1-second pause.
.LI "\*VLogin\*O"
The \*(lqchat string\*(rq which describes the initial conversation
between systems to complete the login procedure.  The string
consists of \*(lqexpect-send\*(rq pairs (separated by spaces) and
optional \*(lqsubexpect-subsend\*(rq pairs (separated by hyphens).
.IP
The \*(lqexpect\*(rq portion contains characters that the local system
expects to receive from the remote system.  The \*(lqsend\*(rq portion
contains a string of characters that are sent to the remote
system upon receipt of the \*(lqexpect\*(rq string.  For example, the
first \*Vexpect\*O string generally contains the remote system's
login prompt, and the first \*Vsend\*O string generally contains the
login ID to be used on the remote system.  The second \*Vexpect\*O
string contains the remote password prompt and the second \*Vsend\*O
string contains the remote system's password.  For example,
.IP
.oS
\*Vin: uucp word: sysuucp\*O
.oE
.IP
Note that the \*Vexpect\*O portion in the example contained only the
trailing part of the full strings expected, \*Llogin:\*O
and \*Lpassword:\*O, respectively.  The \*Vexpect\*O string
only needs to contain part of what is expected.  This helps to
avoid problems with remote
systems that may use \*LLogin:\*O or \*LPassword:\*O instead
of \*Llogin:\*O and \*Lpassword:\*O.
.IP
The use of \*(lqsubexpect-subsend\*(rq strings is shown below:
.IP
.oS
\*Vin:--in: uucp word: sysuucp\*O
.oE
.IP
In the example, the local system expects to receive the string
\*Lin:\*O.  If the local system gets that string, \*Luucp\*O goes on to
the next field in the \*(lqexpect-send\*(rq sequence, which is \*Luucp\*O.
However, if the local system does not get that string, it sends
its own string, which is enclosed by hyphens after the \*Vexpect\*O
string.  In the above example, a null character followed by a
\*Lnewline\*O is sent.  The local system then expects the \*Lin:\*O
(the second instance of it in the example).  The \*Lnewline\*O sent
to the remote generally causes it to respond with its login
prompt, and the login ID can be sent followed by password processing.
.IP
The following strings can be included in the \*VLogin\*O field:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\eN\*O"
Null character
.LI "\*L\eb\*O"
Backspace
.LI "\*L\ec\*O"
Suppress the \*Lnewline\*O at the end of the \*Vsend\*O string
.LI "\*L\ed\*O"
Delay two seconds before sending or reading more characters
.LI "\*L\ep\*O"
Pause for approximately .25 to .50 seconds
.LI "\*L\eE\*O"
Turn on the echo check (useful in \*LDialers\*O file)
.LI "\*L\ee\*O"
Turn off the echo check (useful in \*LDialers\*O file)
.LI "\*L\eK\*O"
Send a BREAK character
.LI "\*L\en\*O"
Newline
.LI "\*L\er\*O"
Carriage return
.LI "\*L\es\*O"
Space character
.LI "\*L\et\*O"
Tab
.LI "\*L\e\e\*O"
backslash character
.LI "\*LEOT\*O"
EOT character.  Two EOT newline characters are sent
.LI "\*LBREAK\*O"
BREAK character (same as \*L\eK\*O)
.LI "\*L\eddd\*O"
Collapse the octal digits (\*Vddd\*O) into a single character before sending.
.LE
.IP
The following example is shown below as two lines due to screen-width
limitations.  As a typical example entry in \*LSystems\*O, it would
actually be one line:
.IP
.oS
\*Vhost1 Any ACU 1200 ch6412 "" \r\d\r\d\r\d\r\*O
\*Vlogin:--login: uucp word: sysuucp\*O
.oE
.IP
In this example, \*Lhost1\*O can be called at any time (\*LAny\*O)
using a phone connection (\*LACU\*O) at 1200 baud.  The phone
number is \*Lch\*O (which is defined in the \*LDialcodes\*O file)
followed by \*L6412\*O.  Initially, the local system
expects nothing (indicated by \*L""\*O) and sends a
sequence of four carriage returns with
two-second delays separating them (\*L\er\ed\er\ed\er\ed\er\*O).
This is typical
for a remote system that must read characters before presenting a login
prompt.  Finally, the login is executed, using login ID \*Luucp\*O
and password \*Lsysuucp\*O.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 10m
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O"
Contains information about available devices
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Dialcodes\*O"
Contains dial-code abbreviations
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Dialers\*O"
Contains information about modems used for \*Luucp\*O
communications links
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Daemons: \*Luucico\*O(8)
.nL
Commands: \*Lct\*O(1), \*Lcu\*O(1), \*Luutry\*O(1), \*Luucp\*O(1),
\*Luucpsetup\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
