.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tar.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 11:19:39 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" 
.\" @(#)tar.5	6.2 (Berkeley) 11/7/85
.\" 
.TH tar 4
.SH NAME
\*Ltar\*O \- Tape archive file format
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\*Ltar\*O
command
dumps several files into one, in a medium suitable for transportation.
.PP 
A tar tape or tar file is a series of blocks, with each block of size TBLOCK.
A file on the tape is represented by a header block which describes
the file, followed by zero or more blocks which give the contents of the
file.  At the end of the tape are two blocks filled with binary
zeros, as an end-of-file indicator.
.PP 
The blocks are grouped for physical I/O operations.  Each group of
\*Vn\*O
blocks (where
\*Vn\*O
is set by the
\*Lb\*O
keyletter on the
\*Ltar\*O
command line, with a default of 20 blocks) is written with a single system
call.  On nine-track tapes, the result of this write is a single tape
record.  The last group is always written at the full size, so blocks after
the two zero blocks contain random data.  On reading, the specified or
default group size is used for the
first read, but if that read returns less than a full tape block, the reduced
block size is used for further reads.
.PP 
The header block looks like:
.PP 
.rS
\*L#define TBLOCK	512
.nL
\*L#define NAMSIZ	100
.sp .4v
\*Lunion hblock {
.nL
	char dummy[TBLOCK];
.nL
	struct header {
.nL
		char name[NAMSIZ];
.nL
		char mode[8];
.nL
		char uid[8];
.nL
		char gid[8];
.nL
		char size[12];
.nL
		char mtime[12];
.nL
		char chksum[8];
.nL
		char linkflag;
.nL
		char linkname[NAMSIZ];
.nL
	} dbuf;
.nL
};
.rE
.PP
The
\*Lname\*O
field
is a null-terminated string.
The other fields are zero-filled octal numbers in ASCII
format.  If the width of each field is given as
\*Vw\*O,
each field
contains
\*Vw\*O-2
digits, a space, and a null, with the exception of the
\*Lsize\*O
and
\*Lmtime\*O
fields,
which do not contain the trailing null, and the
\*Lchksum\*O
field,
which has a null followed by a space.
.PP
The
\*Lname\*O
field
is the name of the file, as specified on the
\*Ltar\*O
command line.  Files dumped because they were in a directory that
was named in the command line have the directory name as prefix and
\*L/filename\*O
as suffix.
.PP
The
\*Lmode\*O
field
is the file mode, with the top bit masked off.
The
\*Luid\*O
and
\*Lgid\*O
fields
are the user and group numbers that own the file.
The
\*Lsize\*O
field
is the size of the file in bytes.  Links and symbolic links are dumped
with this field specified as zero.
.PP
The
\*Lmtime\*O
field
is the modification time of the file at the time it was dumped.
.PP
The
\*Lchksum\*O
field
is an octal ASCII value which represents the sum of all the bytes in the
header block.  When calculating the checksum, the
\*Lchksum\*O
field is treated as if it were all blanks.
.PP
The
\*Llinkflag\*O
field
is null if the file is a regular or special file, ASCII 1
if it is an hard link, and ASCII 2
if it is a symbolic link.  The name that the
file is linked to, if any, is in the
\*Llinkname\*O
field,
with a trailing null.
Unused fields of the header are binary zeros (and are included in the
checksum).
.PP 
The first time a given i-node number is dumped, it is dumped as a regular
file.  Subsequently, it is dumped as a link instead.
Upon retrieval, if a link entry is retrieved but the file it was
linked to is not, an error message is printed and the tape must be manually
rescanned to retrieve the file that it is linked to.
.PP 
The encoding of the header is designed to be portable across machines.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:
\*Ltar\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
