.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: telnetrc.4,v $ $Revision: 1.1.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 17:12:43 $
.\"
.TH telnetrc 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ltelnetrc\*O, \*L.telnetrc\*O \- Specifies setup commands for a \*Ltelnet\*O session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L$HOME/.telnetrc\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "\&.telnetrc file"
.iX "files" "\&.telnetrc"
.iX "login" "remote"
.iX "remote login"
.PP
The \*L\&.telnetrc\*O file contains the setup information for a \*Ltelnet\*O
session.  It is a hidden file in your home directory and must be owned by the
user logging in, or by the root user.
.PP
The file can consist of multiple entries for each remote host to which a user
can connect.  A remote host entry consists of multiple lines.  The first line is
the name of a remote host. The subsequent lines must begin with blank spaces,
and contain \*Ltelnet\*O subcommands.  These subcommands are processed as though
they were typed in manually. Lines beginning with a number sign (#) are comment
lines.  See \*Ltelnet\*O(1) for a complete list of \*Ltelnet\*O subcommands.
.PP
To specify subcommands that apply to all systems, create an entry, using the
word "DEFAULT" as the system name, and specify the \*Ltelnet\*O subcommands in
the subsequent lines.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following shows a sample \*L\&.telnetrc\*O file:
.oS

# Beginning of telnetrc file
# Default subcommands that apply to all systems
DEFAULT
   environ undefine USER
# First system entry
system1
   set echo
   toggle crlf
# Second system entry
system2
   set echo
   mode line
   toggle crlf
.oE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 7m
.LI "\*L$HOME/.telnetrc\*O"
User-customized \*Ltelnet\*O startup values.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Ltelnet\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
