.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Temporary.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/12 14:00:12 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
.\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail 
.\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH Temporary 4
.SH NAME
\*LTemporary\*O \- Stores data files during transfers to remote systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*VSystemName\*L/TM.\*VxxPID\*L.000
.sE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.iX "Temporary" "uucp temporary file"
.iX "uucp" "temporary file"
.\"End Digital correction.
The \*Luucp\*O \*LTemporary\*O (\*LTM.*\*O) files
store data files during transfers to remote systems.
After a \*LData\*O (\*LD.*\*O) file is transferred to a remote system by the
\*Luucico\*O daemon, the \*Luucp\*O program places it in a
subdirectory of the \*Luucp\*O spooling directory
named \*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*VSystemName\*O,
where the \*VSystemName\*O directory is named for the
computer that is transmitting the file.  The \*Luucp\*O program
creates a temporary data file to hold the original data file.
.PP
The full pathname of the temporary data file is in the
following format:
.iS
/usr/spool/uucp/\*VSystemName\*L/TM.\*VxxPID\*L.000\*O
.iE
.PP
where the \*VSystemName\*O directory is named for the computer
that is sending the file, and \*LTM\*V.xxPID\*L.000\*O is the
name of the file; for example, \*LTM.00451.000\*O.  The \*VPID\*O
variable is the process ID of the job.
.SH "FILES"
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O"
Describes accessible remote systems
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*VSystemName/*\*O"
Contains \*Luucp\*O command, data, and execute files
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/\*VSystemName\*L/\*LD.*\*O"
Contain data to be transferred.
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucppublic/*\*O"
Contain files that \*Luucp\*O has transferred
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Daemons: \*Luucico\*O(8)
.PP
Commands: \*Luucp\*O(1), \*Luudemon.cleanu\*O(4),
\*Luupick\*O(1), \*Luuto\*O(1), \*Luux\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
