.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: terminfo.4,v $ $Revision: 3.3.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 22:07:40 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH terminfo 4
.SH NAME
\*Lterminfo\*O \- Describes terminals by capability
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "terminfo file"
.iX "terminals information"
A \*Lterminfo\*O file is a database that describes the
capabilities and method of operation of various terminals.
The database includes definitions of initialization sequences,
padding requirements, cursor positioning, and other command sequences
that control specific terminals.
.PP
Before a \*Lterminfo\*O source file can be used, it must be compiled
using the \*Ltic\*O command.  The compiled \*Lterminfo\*O entries
are placed into subdirectories of the \*L/usr/lib/terminfo\*O
directory.  This directory may be redefined with the \*LTERMINFO\*O
environment variable.  See the \*LEXAMPLES\*O section for
more information on using the \*LTERMINFO\*O environment variable.
.PP
Each \*Lterminfo\*O file entry consists of a number of fields
separated by commas.  Any white space between commas is ignored. The
first field for each terminal supplies the names the terminal
is known by, separated by vertical bars (\|\*L|\*O\|).  The first
name given is the most common abbreviation for the terminal,
the last name given is a long name fully identifying the terminal,
and all others are synonyms for the terminal name.  All
names except the last are in lowercase and do not contain any white
space.
.PP
The fields following the terminal name supply the capabilities of the
terminal.  Although
capability names have no absolute length limit, an informal limit
of 5 characters is adopted to keep them short and to allow the tabs
in the source file \*Lcaps\*O to be aligned.  Whenever possible,
names are chosen to be the same as or similar to the ANSI X3.64 standard
of 1979.
.PP
\*OTerminal names (except the last) are chosen using the following
conventions. A root name is chosen to represent the particular
hardware class of the terminal. This name
does not contain hyphens,
except to avoid synonyms that conflict with other names. Possible
modes for the hardware or user preferences are indicated by appending
a \*L-\*O (hyphen) and one of the following suffixes:
.\"from TP "  
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-am\*O"
With automatic margins (usually default)
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Color mode
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*L-w\*O"
Wide mode (more than 80 columns)
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*L-nam\*O"
Without automatic margins
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*L-\*Vn\*O"
Number of lines on the screen
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*L-na\*O"
No arrow keys (leave them in local)
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*L-\*Vn\*Lp\*O"
Number of pages of memory
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*L-rv\*O"
Reverse video
.LE
.PP
Thus, a
\*Lvt100\*O
terminal in 132-column mode would be \*Lvt100-w\*O.
.PP
\*OCapabilities in the \*Lterminfo\*O file are of three types:
.\"from TP 4"  
.\" bullet list under TP ! " 
.ML
.LI
Boolean capabilities indicate that the
terminal has some particular feature. Boolean capabilities are
evaluated as true
if the corresponding name is in the terminal description.
.\"from TP 4"  
.\" bullet list under TP ! " 
.LI
Numeric
capabilities give the size of the terminal or the size of particular
delays.
.\"from TP 4"  
.\" bullet list under TP ! " 
.LI
String capabilities give a sequence that can be used to perform
particular terminal operations.
.LE
.PP
To continue an entry onto multiple lines, place white space
at the beginning of each subsequent line.  Include
a comment on
a line beginning with the \*L#\*O (number sign) character.
To comment out an
individual capability,
precede it with a \*L.\*O (dot).
.SS "List of Capabilities"
The following table shows the C variable (which
the programmer uses to access the \*Lterminfo\*O capabilities),
the capability name (the short name used in
the text of the database),
the 2-letter internal code used
in the compiled database (always corresponding to a \*Ltermcap\*O
capability name), and a short description of each capability.
.PP
.br
.ne 9P
.TS
tab(@);
lbw(1.25i) lbw(.4i) lbw(.3i) lbw(2.25i)
lw(1.25i) lw(.4i) lw(.3i) lw(2.25i) .
_
.sp
Boolean@Name@Code@Description
_
.sp
auto_left_margin@bw@bw@Indicates \*Lcub1\*O wraps from column 0
@@@(zero) to last column.
.sp
auto_right_margin@am@am@Indicates terminal has automatic
@@@margins.
.sp
back_color_erase@bce@be@Screen erased with background
@@@color.
.sp
beehive_glitch@xsb@xs@Indicates a terminal with F1=\*L<esc>\*O
@@@and \%F2=\*L<Ctrl-c>\*O.
.sp
can_change@ccc@cc@Terminal can re-define existing
@@@color.
.sp
ceol_standout_glitch@xhp@xs@Indicates standout not erased by
@@@overwriting.
.sp
col_addr_glitch@xhpa@YA@Only positive motion for hpa/mhpa
@@@caps.
.sp
cpi_changes_res@cpix@YF@Changing character pitch changes
@@@resolution.
.sp
cr_cancels_micro_mode@crxm@YB@Using a carriage return
@@@turns off micro mode.
.sp
eat_newline_glitch@xenl@xn@Ignores newline character after
@@@80 columns.
.sp
erase_overstrike@eo@eo@Erases overstrikes with a
@@@blank.
.sp
generic_type@gn@gn@Indicates generic line type (such as
@@@dialup, switch).
.sp
hard_copy@hc@hc@Indicates hardcopy terminal.
.sp
hard_cursor@chts@HC@Cursor is hard to see.
.sp
has_meta_key@km@km@Indicates terminal has a meta key
@@@(shift, sets parity bit).
.sp
has_print_wheel@daisy@YC@Printer needs operator to change
@@@character set.
.sp
has_status_line@hs@hs@Indicates terminal has extra status
@@@line.
.sp
hue_lightness_saturation@hls@hl@Terminal uses only HLS color
@@@notation (Tektronix).
.sp
insert_null_glitch@in@in@Indicates insert mode distinguishes
@@@nulls.
.sp
lpi_changes_res@lpix@YG@Changing line pitch changes
@@@resolution.
.sp
memory_above@da@da@Retains information above display in
@@@memory.
.sp
memory_below@db@db@Retains information below display in
@@@memory.
.sp
move_insert_mode@mir@mi@Indicates safe to move while in insert
@@@mode.
.sp
move_standout_mode@msgr@ms@Indicates safe to move in standout
@@@mode.
.sp
needs_xon_xoff@nxon@nx@Padding will not work, xon/xoff
@@@required.
.sp
non_rev_rmcup@nrrmc@NR@T{
smcup does not reverse rmcup.
T}
.sp
no_pad_char@npc@NP@T{
Pad character does not exist.
T}
.sp
over_strike@os@os@T{
Indicates terminal overstrikes.
T}
.sp
prtr_silent@mc5i@5i@T{
Printer will not echo on screen.
T}
.sp
row_addr_glitch@xvpa@YD@Only positive motion for rpa/mvpa
@@@caps.
.sp
semi_auto_right_margin@sam@YE@Printing in last column causes a
@@@carriage return.
.sp
status_line_esc_ok@eslok@es@Indicates escape can be used on the
@@@status line.
.sp
teleray_glitch@xt@xt@Indicates destructive tabs and blanks
@@@inserted while entering standout mode.
.sp
tilde_glitch@hz@hz@Indicates terminal cannot print ~
@@@(tilde) characters.
.sp
transparent_underline@ul@ul@T{
Overstrikes with underline character.
T}
.sp
xon_xoff@xon@xo@T{
Indicates terminal uses xon/xoff handshaking.
T}
.sp
.TE
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lbw(1.25i) lbw(.4i) lbw(.3i) lbw(2.2i)
lw(1.25i) lw(.4i) lw(.3i) lw(2.25i) .
_
.sp
Number@Name@Code@Description
_
.sp
buffer_capacity@bufsz@Ya@T{
Number of bytes buffered before printing.
T}
.sp
columns@cols@co@T{
Specifies the number of columns in a line.
T}
.sp
dot_horz_spacing@spinh@Yc@T{
Spacing of dots horizontally in dots per inch.
T}
.sp
dot_vert_spacing@spinv@Yb@T{
Spacing of pins vertically in pins per inch.
T}
.sp
init_tabs@it@it@T{
Provides tabs initially every #1 spaces.
T}
.sp
label_height@lh@lh@T{
Number of rows in each label.
T}
.sp
label_width@lw@lw@T{
Number of columns in each label.
T}
.sp
lines@lines@li@T{
Specifies the number of lines on screen or page.
T}
.sp
lines_of_memory@lm@lm@T{
Specifies the number of lines of memory if greater than the number of
lines on the screen.  A value of 0
(zero) indicates that the number of lines is variable.
T}
.sp
magic_cookie_glitch@xmc@sg@T{
Indicates number of blank characters left by\*L smso\*O or \*Lrmso\*O.
T}
.sp
max_colors@colors@Co@T{
Maximum number of colors on the screen.
T}
.sp
max_micro_address@maddr@Yd@T{
Maximum value in micro_..._address.
T}
.sp
max_micro_jump@mjump@Ye@T{
Maximum value in parm_..._micro.
T}
.sp
max_pairs@pairs@pa@T{
Maximum number of color-pairs on the screen.
T}
.sp
micro_col_size@mcs@Yf@T{
Character step size when in micro mode.
T}
.sp
micro_line_size@mls@Yg@T{
Line step size when in micro mode.
T}
.sp
no_color_video@ncv@NC@T{
Video attributes that cannot be used.
T}
.sp
number_of_pins@npins@Yh@T{
Number of pins in print-head.
T}
.sp
num_labels@nlab@Nl@T{
Number of labels on screen (start at 1).
T}
.sp
output_res_char@orc@Yi@T{
Horizontal resolution in units per character.
T}
.sp
output_res_line@orl@Yj@T{
Vertical resolution in units per line.
T}
.sp
output_res_horz_inch@orhi@Yk@T{
Horizontal resolution in units per inch.
T}
.sp
output_res_vert_inch@orvi@Yl@T{
Vertical resolution in units per inch.
T}
.sp
padding_baud_rate@pb@pb@T{
Indicates lowest baud where carriage return and line return padding
is needed.
T}
.sp
virtual_terminal@vt@vt@T{
Indicates virtual terminal number.
T}
.sp
wide_char_size@widcs@Yn@T{
Character step size when in double.
T}
.sp
width_status_lines@wsl@ws@T{
Specifies the number of columns in status line.
T}
.sp
.TE
.PP
.ds qq @
.TS
tab(@);
lb lb lb lb
l l l l.
_
.sp
String@Name@Code@Description
_
.sp
acs_chars@acsc@ac@Graphic character set pairs
@@@aAbBcC.
alt_scancode_esc@scesca@SY@Alternate escape for scancode
@@@emulation.
appl_defined_str@apstr@za@Application-defined terminal
@@@string.
back_tab@cbt@bt@Back tab. (P)
bell@bel@bl@Produces an audible signal (bell).
@@@(P)
bit_image_carriage_return@bicr@Yv@Move to beginning of same row
@@@(use tparm).
bit_image_newline@binel@Zz@Move to next row of the bit image
@@@(use tparm).
bit_image_repeat@birep@Xy@Repeat bit-image cell #1 #2 times
@@@(use tparm).
box_chars_1@box1@bx@Box characters primary set.
box_chars_2@box2@by@Box characters alternate set.
box_attr_1@batt1@Bx@Attributes for \*Lbox_chars_1\*O.
box_attr_2@batt2@By@Attributes for \*Lbox_chars_2\*O.
carriage_return@cr@cr@Indicates carriage return. (P*)
change_char_pitch@cpi@ZA@Change number of characters per
@@@inch.
change_scroll_region@csr@cs@Changes scroll region to lines 1
@@@through 2. (PG)
change_line_pitch@lpi@ZB@Change number of lines
@@@per inch.
change_res_horz@chr@ZC@Change horizontal
@@@resolution.
change_res_vert@cvr@ZD@Change vertical
@@@resolution.
char_padding@rmp@rP@Similar to insert_padding,
@@@but when in replace mode.
char_set_names@csnm@Zy@List of character set
@@@names.
clear_all_tabs@tbc@ct@Clears all tab stops. (P)
clear_margins@mgc@MC@Clear all margins (top, bottom,
@@@and sides).
clear_screen@clear@cl@Clears screen and puts cursor in
@@@home position. (P*)
clr_bol@el1@cb@Clear to beginning of line,
@@@inclusive.
clr_eol@el@ce@Clears to end of line. (P)
clr_eos@ed@cd@Clears to end of the display. (P*)
code_set_init@csin@ci@Init sequence for multiple
@@@codesets.
color_bg_0@colb0@d0@Background color 0 black.
color_bg_1@colb1@d1@Background color 1 red.
color_bg_2@colb2@d2@Background color 2 green.
color_bg_3@colb3@d3@Background color 3 brown.
color_bg_4@colb4@d4@Background color 4 blue.
color_bg_5@colb5@d5@Background color 5 magenta.
color_bg_6@colb6@d6@Background color 6 cyan.
color_bg_7@colb7@d7@Background color 7 white.
color_fg_0@colf0@c0@Foreground color 0 white.
color_fg_1@colf1@c1@Foreground color 1 red.
color_fg_2@colf2@c2@Foreground color 2 green.
color_fg_3@colf3@c3@Foreground color 3 brown.
color_fg_4@colf4@c4@Foreground color 4 blue.
color_fg_5@colf5@c5@Foreground color 5 magenta.
color_fg_6@colf6@c6@Foreground color 6 cyan.
color_fg_7@colf7@c7@Foreground color 7 black.
color_names@colornm@Yw@Give name for color
@@@#1.
column_address@hpa@ch@Sets cursor column. (PG)
command_character@cmdch@CC@Indicates terminal command
@@@prototype character can be set.
cursor_address@cup@cm@Indicates screen relative cursor
@@@motion row #1 col #2. (PG)
cursor_down@cud1@do@Moves cursor down one line.
cursor_home@home@ho@Moves cursor to home position
@@@(if no \*Lcup\*O).
cursor_invisible@civis@vi@Makes cursor invisible.
cursor_left@cub1@le@Moves cursor left one space.
cursor_mem_address@mrcup@CM@Indicates memory relative
@@@cursor addressing.
cursor_normal@cnorm@ve@Makes cursor appear normal
@@@(undo \*Lvs\*O or \*Lvi\*O).
cursor_right@cuf1@nd@Indicates nondestructive space
@@@(cursor right).
cursor_to_ll@ll@ll@Moves cursor to first column of last
@@@line (if no \*Lcup\*O).
cursor_up@cuu1@up@Moves cursor up one line
@@@(cursor up).
cursor_visible@cvvis@vs@Makes cursor very visible.
define_bit_image_region@defbi@Yx@ Define rectangular bit-image region
@@@(use tparm).
define_char@defc@ZE@Define a character in a character
@@@set.
delete_character@dch1@dc@Deletes character. (P*)
delete_line@dl1@dl@Deletes line. (P*)
device_type@devt@dv@Indicate language/codeset
@@@support.
display_pc_char@dispc@SP@Display PC character.
dis_status_line@dsl@ds@Disables status line.
down_half_line@hd@hd@Indicates subscript (forward 1/2
@@@linefeed).
ena_acs@enacs@eA@Enable alternate character
@@@set.
end_bit_image_region@endbi@Yy@End a bit-image region (use
@@@tparm).
enter_alt_charset_mode@smacs@as@Starts alternate character set (P)
enter_am_mode@smam@SZ@Turn on automatic margins
enter_blink_mode@blink@mb@Enables blinking
enter_bold_mode@bold@md@Enables bold (extra bright) mode
enter_ca_mode@smcup@ti@Begins programs that use \*Lcup\*O
enter_delete_mode@smdc@dm@Starts delete mode
enter_dim_mode@dim@mh@Enables half-bright mode
enter_doublewide_mode@swidm@ZF@Enable double wide printing
enter_draft_quality@sdrfq@ZG@Set draft quality print
enter_insert_mode@smir@m@Starts insert mode
enter_italics_mode@sitm@ZH@Enable italics
enter_leftward_mode@slm@ZI@Enable leftward carriage motion
enter_micro_mode@smicm@ZJ@Enable micro motion capabilities
enter_near_letter_quality@snlq@ZK@Set near-letter quality print
enter_normal_quality@snrmq@ZL@Set near-letter quality print
enter_pc_charset_mode@smpch@SQ@Enter PC character display mode
enter_protected_mode@prot@mp@Enables protected mode.
enter_reverse_mode@rev@mr@Enables reverse video mode
enter_scancode_mode@smsc@ST@Enter PC scancode mode
enter_secure_mode@invis@mk@Enables blank mode (characters
@@@invisible).
enter_shadow_mode@sshm@ZM@Enable shadow printing
enter_standout_mode@smso@so@Begins standout mode.
enter_subscript_mode@ssubm@ZN@Enable subscript printing
enter_superscript_mode@ssupm@ZO@Enable superscript printing
enter_underline_mode@smul@us@Starts underscore mode.
enter_upward_mode@sum@ZP@Enable upward carriage motion
enter_xon_mode@smxon@SX@Turn on xon/xoff handshaking
erase_chars@ech@ec@Erases #1 characters. (PG)
exit_alt_charset_mode@rmacs@ae@Ends alternate character set. (P)
exit_am_mode@rmam@RA@Turn off automatic margins
exit_attribute_mode@sgr0@me@Disables all attributes.
exit_ca_mode@rmcup@te@Ends programs that use \*Lcup\*O.
exit_delete_mode@rmdc@ed@Ends delete mode.
exit_doublewide_mode@rwidm@ZQ@Disable double wide printing
exit_insert_mode@rmir@ei@Ends insert mode.
exit_italics_mode@ritm@ZR@Disable italics.
exit_leftward_mode@rlm@ZS@Enable rightward (normal).
exit_micro_mode@rmicm@ZT@Disable micro motion capabilities.
exit_pc_charset_mode@rmpch@SS@Disable PC character display mode.
exit_scancode_mode@rmsc@SU@Disable PC scancode mode.
exit_shadow_mode@rshm@ZU@Disable shadow printing.
exit_standout_mode@rmso@se@Ends standout mode.
exit_subscript_mode@rsubm@ZV@Disable subscript printing.
exit_superscript_mode@rsupm@ZW@Disable superscript printing.
exit_underline_mode@rmul@ue@Ends underscore mode.
exit_upward_mode@rum@ZX@Enable downward (normal).
exit_xon_mode@rmxon@RX@Turn off xon/xoff handshaking.
flash_screen@lash@vb@Indicates visual bell (may not move
@@@cursor).
font_0@font0@f0@Select font 0.
font_1@font1@f1@Select font 1.
font_2@font2@f2@Select font 2.
font_3@font3@f3@Select font 3.
font_4@font4@f4@Select font 4.
font_5@font5@f5@Select font 5.
font_6@font6@f6@Select font 6.
font_7@font7@f7@Select font 7.
form_feed@ff@ff@Ejects page (hardcopy terminal).
@@@(P*)
from_status_line@fsl@fs@Returns from status line.
init_1string@is1@i1@Initializes terminal.
init_2string@is2@i2@Initializes terminal.
init_3string@is3@i3@Initializes terminal.
init_file@if@if@Identifies file containing \*Lis\*O.
initialize_color@initc@Ic@Initialize the definition of color.
initialize_pair@initp@Ip@Initialize color-pair.
insert_character@ich1@ic@Inserts character. (P)
insert_line@il1@al@Adds new blank line. (P*)
insert_padding@ip@ip@Inserts pad after character
@@@inserted. (P*)
key_action@kact@kJ@Sent by the action key.
key_backspace@kbs@kb@Sent by the backspace key.
key_back_tab@kbtab@k0@Sent by the backtab key.
key_beg@kbeg@\*(qq1@KEY_BEG, sent by the
@@@beg(inning) key.
key_btab@kcbt@kB@KEY_BTAB, sent by the back-tab
@@@key.
key_cancel@kcan@\*(qq2@KEY_CANCEL, sent by the cancel
@@@key.
key_catab@ktbc@ka@Sent by the clear-all-tabs
@@@key.
key_clear@kclr@kC@Sent by the clear-screen or erase
@@@key.
key_close@kclo@\*(qq3@KEY_CLOSE, sent by the close
@@@key.
key_copy@kcpy@\*(qq5@KEY_COPY, sent by the copy key.
key_create@kcrt@\*(qq6@KEY_CREATE, sent by the create
@@@key.
key_ctab@kctab@kt@Sent by the clear-tab key.
key_command@kcmd@kc@Command request key.
key_command_pane@kcpn@kW@Command pane key.
key_dc@kdch1@kD@Sent by the delete-character key.
key_dl@kdl1@kL@Sent by the delete-line key.
key_do@kdo@ki@Do request key.
key_down@kcud1@kd@Sent by the terminal cursor down
@@@key.
key_eic@krmir@kM@Sent by \*Lrmir\*O or \*Lsmir\*O in insert
@@@mode.
key_end@kend@kw@End key.
key_enter@kent@\*(qq8@KEY_ENTER, sent by the
@@@enter/send key.
key_eol@ke1@kE@Sent by the clear-to-end-of-line
@@@key.
key_eos@ked@kS@Sent by the clear-to-end-of-screen
@@@key.
key_exit@kext@\*(qq9@KEY_EXIT, sent by the exit key.
key_f0@kf0@k0@Sent by function key F0.
key_f1@kf1@k1@Sent by function key F1.
key_f2@kf2@k2@Sent by function key F2.
key_f3@kf3@k3@Sent by function key F3.
key_f4@kf4@k4@Sent by function key F4.
key_f5@kf5@k5@Sent by function key F5.
key_f6@kf6@k6@Sent by function key F6.
key_f7@kf7@k7@Sent by function key F7.
key_f8@kf8@k8@Sent by function key F8.
key_f9@kf9@k9@Sent by function key F9.
key_f10@kf10@k@Sent by function key F10.
key_f11@kf11@k<@Sent by function key F11.
key_f12@kf12@k>@Sent by function key F12.
key_f13@kf13@k!@Sent by function key F13.
key_f14@kf14@k\*(qq@Sent by function key F14.
key_f15@kf15@k#@Sent by function key F15.
key_f16@kf16@k$@Sent by function key F16.
key_f17@kf17@k%@Sent by function key F17.
key_f18@kf18@k^@Sent by function key F18.
key_f19@kf19@k&@Sent by function key F19.
key_f20@kf20@k*@Sent by function key F20.
key_f21@kf21@k(@Sent by function key F21.
key_f22@kf22@k)@Sent by function key F22.
key_f23@kf23@k-@Sent by function key F23.
key_f24@kf24@k_@Sent by function key F24.
key_f25@kf25@k+@Sent by function key F25.
key_f26@kf26@k,@Sent by function key F26.
key_f27@kf27@k:@Sent by function key F27.
key_f28@kf28@k?@Sent by function key F28.
key_f29@kf29@k[@Sent by function key F29.
key_f30@kf30@k]@Sent by function key F30.
key_f31@kf31@k{@Sent by function key F31.
key_f32@kf32@k}@Sent by function key F32.
key_f33@kf33@k|@Sent by function key F33.
key_f34@kf34@k~@Sent by function key F34.
key_f35@kf35@k/@Sent by function key F35.
key_f36@kf36@k=@Sent by function key F36.
key_f37@kf37@FR@KEY_F(37) sent by function key
@@@F37.
key_f38@kf38@FS@KEY_F(38) sent by function key
@@@F38.
key_f39@kf39@FT@KEY_F(39) sent by function key
@@@F39.
key_f40@kf40@FU@KEY_F(40) sent by function key
@@@F40.
key_f41@kf41@FV@KEY_F(41) sent by function key
@@@F41.
key_f42@kf42@FW@KEY_F(42) sent by function key
@@@F42.
key_f43@kf43@FX@KEY_F(43) sent by function key
@@@F43.
key_f44@kf44@FY@KEY_F(44) sent by function key
@@@F44.
key_f45@kf45@FZ@KEY_F(45) sent by function key
@@@F45.
key_f46@kf46@Fa@KEY_F(46) sent by function key
@@@F46.
key_f47@kf47@Fb@KEY_F(47) sent by function key
@@@F47.
key_f48@kf48@Fc@KEY_F(48) sent by function key
@@@F48.
key_f49@kf49@Fd@KEY_F(49) sent by function key
@@@F49.
key_f50@kf50@Fe@KEY_F(50) sent by function key
@@@F50.
key_f51@kf51@Ff@KEY_F(51) sent by function key
@@@F51.
key_f52@kf52@Fg@KEY_F(52) sent by function key
@@@F52.
key_f53@kf53@Fh@KEY_F(53) sent by function key
@@@F53.
key_f54@kf54@Fi@KEY_F(54) sent by function key
@@@F54.
key_f55@kf55@Fj@KEY_F(55) sent by function key
@@@F55.
key_f56@kf56@Fk@KEY_F(56) sent by function key
@@@F56.
key_f57@kf57@Fl@KEY_F(57) sent by function key
@@@F57.
key_f58@kf58@Fm@KEY_F(58) sent by function key
@@@F58.
key_f59@kf59@Fn@KEY_F(59) sent by function key
@@@F59.
key_f60@kf60@Fo@KEY_F(60) sent by function key
@@@F60.
key_f61@kf61@Fp@KEY_F(61) sent by function key
@@@F61.
key_f62@kf62@Fq@KEY_F(62) sent by function key
@@@F62.
key_f63@kf63@Fr@KEY_F(63) sent by function key
@@@F63.
key_find@kfnd@\*(qq0@KEY_FIND sent by find key
key_help@khlp@kq@Help key.
key_home@khome@kh@Sent by home key.
key_ic@kich1@kI@Sent by insert character/enter
@@@insert mode key.
key_il@kil1@kA@Sent by insert line key.
key_left@kcub1@kl@Sent by terminal cursor left key.
key_ll@kll@kH@Sent by home-down key.
key_mark@kmrk@%2@KEY_MARK, sent by mark key.
key_message@kmsg@%3@KEY_MESSAGE, sent
@@@by message key.
key_move@kmov@%4@KEY_MOVE, sent by move key.
key_newline@knl@kn@New-line key.
key_next_pane@knpn@kv@Next-pane key.
key_npage@knp@kN@Sent by next-page key.
key_open@kopn@%6@KEY_OPEN, sent by open key.
key_options@kopt@%7@KEY_OPTIONS, sent
@@@by options key.
key_ppage@kpp@kP@Sent by previous-page key.
key_prev_cmd@kpcmd@kp@Sent by previous-command key.
key_prev_pane@kppn@kV@Previous pane key.
key_previous@kprv@%8@KEY_PREVIOUS, sent
@@@by previous-object.
key_print@kprt@%9@KEY_PRINT, sent by print or copy
@@@key.
key_quit@kquit@kQ@Quit key.
key_redo@krdo@%0@KEY_REDO, sent by redo key.
key_reference@kref@&1@KEY_REFERENCE, sent
@@@by ref(erence) key.
key_refresh@krfr@&2@KEY_REFRESH, sent
@@@by refresh key.
key_replace@krpl@&3@KEY_REPLACE, sent by replace
@@@key.
key_restart@krst@&4@KEY_RESTART, sent by restart
@@@key.
key_resume@kres@&5@KEY_RESUME, sent by resume
@@@key.
key_right@kcuf1@kr@Sent by terminal cursor right key.
key_save@ksav@&6@KEY_SAVE, sent by save key.
key_sbeg@kBEG@&9@KEY_SBEG, sent
@@@by shifted beginning key.
key_scancel@kCAN@&0@KEY_SCANCEL, sent
@@@by shifted cancel key.
key_scommand@kCMD@*1@KEY_SCOMMAND, sent
@@@by shifted cmd (command) key.
key_scopy@kCPY@*2@KEY_SCOPY, sent
@@@by shifted copy key.
key_screate@kCRT@*3@KEY_SCREATE, sent
@@@by shifted create key.
key_scroll_left@kscl@kz@Scroll left.
key_scroll_right@kscr@kZ@Scroll right.
key_sdc@kDC@*4@KEY_SDC, sent
@@@by shifted delete-char key.
key_sdl@kDL@*5@KEY_SDL, sent
@@@by shifted delete-line key.
key_select@ksel@kU@Select key.
key_send@kEND@*7@KEY_SEND, sent by shifted end
@@@key.
key_seol@kEOL@*8@KEY_SEOL, sent
@@@by shifted clear-line key.
key_sexit@kEXT@*9@KEY_SEXIT, sent by shifted exit
@@@key.
key_sf@kind@kF@Sent by scroll-forward/down key.
key_sf1@ksf1@S1@Special function key 1.
key_sf2@ksf2@S2@Special function key 2.
key_sf3@ksf3@S3@Special function key 3.
key_sf4@ksf4@S4@Special function key 4.
key_sf5@ksf5@S5@Special function key 5.
key_sf6@ksf6@S6@Special function key 6.
key_sf7@ksf7@S7@Special function key 7.
key_sf8@ksf8@S8@Special function key 8.
key_sf9@ksf9@S9@Special function key 9.
key_sf10@ksf10@SA@Special function key 10.
key_sfind@kFND@*0@KEY_SFIND, sent
@@@by shifted find key.
key_shelp@kHLP@#1@KEY_SHELP, sent
@@@by shifted help key.
key_shome@kHOM@#2@KEY_SHOME, sent
@@@by shifted home key.
key_sic@kIC@#3@KEY_SIC, sent
@@@by shifted input key.
key_sleft@kLFT@#4@KEY_SLEFT, sent
@@@by shifted left-arrow.
key_smap_in1@kmpf1@Kv@Input for special mapped key 1.
key_smap_out1@kmpt1@KV@Output for mapped key 1.
key_smap_in2@kmpf2@Kw@Input for special mapped key 2.
key_smap_out2@kmpt2@KW@Output for mapped key 2.
.TE
.PP
.ds qq @
.TS
tab(@);
lb lb lb lb
l l l l.
_
.sp
String@Name@Code@Description
_
.sp
key_smap_in3@kmpf3@Kx@Input for special mapped key 3.
key_smap_out3@kmpt3@KX@Output for mapped key 3.
key_smap_in4@kmpf4@Ky@Input for special mapped key 4.
key_smap_out4@kmpt4@KY@Output for mapped key 4.
key_smap_in5@kmpf5@Kz@Input for special mapped key 5.
key_smap_out5@kmpt5@KZ@Output for mapped key 5.
key_smap_in6@kmpf6@Kr@Input for special mapped key 6.
key_smap_out6@kmpt6@KR@Output for mapped key 6.
key_smap_in7@kmpf7@Ks@Input for special mapped key 7.
key_smap_out7@kmpt7@KS@Output for mapped key 7.
key_smap_in8@kmpf8@Kt@Input for special mapped key 8.
key_smap_out8@kmpt8@KT@Output for mapped key 8.
key_smap_in9@kmpf9@Ku@Input for special mapped key 9.
key_smap_out9@kmpt9@KU@Output for mapped key 9.
key_smessage@kMSG@%a@KEY_SMESSAGE, sent
@@@by shifted message.
key_smove@kMOV@%b@KEY_SMOVE, sent
@@@by shifted move key.
key_snext@kNXT@%c@KEY_SNEXT, sent
@@@by shifted next key.
key_soptions@kOPT@%d@KEY_SOPTIONS, sent
@@@by shifted options.
key_sprevious@kPRV@%e@KEY_SPREVIOUS, sent
@@@by shifted previous key.
key_sprint@kPRT@%f@KEY_SPRINT, sent
@@@by shifted print key.
key_sr@kri@kR@Sent by scroll-backward/up key.
key_sredo@kRDO@%g@KEY_SREDO, sent by shifted redo
@@@key.
key_sreplace@kRPL@%h@KEY_SREPLACE, sent
@@@by shifted replace key.
key_sright@kRIT@%i@KEY_SRIGHT, sent
@@@by shifted right arrow key.
key_srsume@kRES@%j@KEY_SRSUME, sent
@@@by shifted resume key.
key_ssave@kSAV@!1@KEY_SSAVE, sent by save key
key_ssuspend@kSPD@!2@KEY_SSUSPEND, sent by
@@@shifted suspend key.
key_stab@khts@k@Sent by set-tab key.
key_sundo@kUND@!3@KEY_SUNDO, sent by shifted
@@@undo key.
key_suspend@kspd@&7@KEY_SUSPEND, sent by suspend
@@@key.
key_tab@ktab@ko@Tab key.
key_undo@kund@&8@KEY_UNDO sent by undo key.
key_up@kcuu1@ku@Sent by terminal cursor up key.
keypad_local@rmkx@ke@Ends keypad transmit mode.
keypad_xmit@smkx@ks@Puts terminal in keypad transmit
@@@mode.
lab_f0@f0@l0@Labels function key F0 if not F0.
lab_f1@lf1@l1@Labels function key F1 if not F1.
lab_f2@lf2@l2@Labels function key F2 if not F2.
lab_f3@lf3@l3@Labels function key F3 if not F3.
lab_f4@lf4@l4@Labels function key F4 if not F4.
lab_f5@lf5@l5@Labels function key F5 if not F5.
lab_f6@lf6@l6@Labels function key F6 if not F6.
lab_f7@lf7@l7@Labels function key F7 if not F7.
lab_f8@lf8@l8@Labels function key F8 if not F8.
lab_f9@lf9@l9@Labels function key F9 if not F9.
lab_f10@lf10@la@Labels function key F10 if not F10.
label_off@rmln@LF@Turn off soft labels.
label_on@smln@LO@Turn on soft labels.
meta_on@smm@mm@Enables meta mode (8th bit).
meta_off@rmm@mo@Disables meta mode.
micro_column_address@mhpa@ZY@Like column_address for
@@@micro adjustment.
micro_down@mcud1@ZZ@Like curser_down for micro
@@@adjustment.
micro_left@mcub1@Za@Like cursor_left for micro
@@@adjustment.
micro_right@mcuf1@Zb@Like cursor_right for micro
@@@adjustment.
micro_row_address@mvpa@Zc@Like row_address micro
@@@adjustment.
micro_up@mcuu1@Zd@Like cursor_up for micro
@@@adjustment.
newline@nel@nw@Performs newline function.
@@@(behaves like a carriage return
@@@followed by a linefeed).
order_of_pins@porder@Ze@Matches software bits to
@@@print-head pins.
orig_colors@oc@oc@Set all color(-pair)s to the original
@@@ones.
orig_pair@op@op@Set default color-pair to the original
@@@one.
pad_char@pad@pc@Pad character (instead of null).
parm_dch@dch@DC@Deletes #1 characters. (PG*)
parm_delete_line@dl@DL@Deletes #1 lines. (PG*)
parm_down_cursor@cud@DO@Moves cursor down #1 lines. (PG*)
parm_down_micro@mcud@Zf@Like parm_down_cursor for
@@@micro adjustment.
parm_ich@ich@IC@Inserts #1 blank characters. (PG*)
parm_index@indn@SF@Scrolls forward #1 lines. (PG)
parm_insert_line@il@AL@Adds #1 new blank lines. (PG*)
parm_left_cursor@cub@LE@Moves cursor left #1 spaces. (PG)
parm_left_micro@mcub@Zg@Like parm_left_cursor for micro
@@@adjustment.
parm_right_cursor@cuf@RI@Moves cursor right #1 spaces.
@@@(PG*)
parm_right_micro@mcuf@Zh@Like parm_right_cursor for
@@@micro adjustment.
parm_rindex@rin@SR@Scrolls backward #1 lines. (PG)
parm_up_cursor@cuu@UP@Moves cursor up #1 lines. (PG*)
parm_up_micro@mcuu@Zi@Like parm_up_cursor for micro
@@@adjustment.
pc_term_options@pctrm@SV@PC terminal options.
pkey_key@pfkey@pk@Programs function key F1 to type
@@@string #2.
pkey_local@pfloc@pl@Programs function key F1 to
@@@execute string #2.
pkey_plab@pfxl@xl@Prog key #1 to xmit string #2 and
@@@show string #3.
pkey_xmit@pfx@px@Programs function key F1 to xmit
@@@string #2.
plab_norm@pln@pn@Program label #1 to show string #2
print_screen@mc0@ps@Prints contents of the screen.
prtr_off@mc4@pf@Disables the printer.
prtr_on@mc5@po@Enables the printer.
repeat_char@rep@rp@Repeats character #1 twice. (PG*)
req_for_input@rfi@RF@Send next input char (for ptys)
reset_1string@rs1@r1@Resets terminal to known modes.
reset_2string@rs2@r2@Resets terminal to known modes.
reset_3string@rs3@r3@Resets terminal to known modes.
reset_file@rf@rf@Identifies the file containing reset
@@@string.
restore_cursor@rc@rc@Restores cursor to position of
@@@last \*Lsc\*O.
row_address@vpa@cv@Positions cursor to an absolute
@@@vertical position (set row). (PG)
save_cursor@sc@sc@Saves cursor position. (P)
scancode_escape@scesc@SW@Escape for scancode emulation.
scroll_forward@ind@sf@Scrolls text up. (P)
scroll_reverse@ri@sr@Scrolls text down. (P)
select_char_set@scs@Zj@Select character set.
set0_des_seq@s0ds@s0@Shift into codeset 0 (EUC set 0,
@@@ASCII).
set1_des_seq@s1ds@s1@Shift into codeset 1.
set2_des_seq@s2ds@s2@Shift into codeset 2.
set3_des_seq@s3ds@s3@Shift into codeset 3.
set_a_background@setab@AB@Set background color using ANSI
@@@escape.
set_a_foreground@setaf@AF@Set foreground color using ANSI
@@@escape.
set_attributes@sgr@sa@Defines the video attributes. (PG*)
set_background@setb@Sb@Set current background color.
set_bottom_margin@smgb@Zk@Set bottom margin at current line.
set_bottom_margin_parm@smgbp@Zl@Set bottom margin at line #1 or #2
set_bottom_margin_parm@smgbp@Zl@Set bottom margin at line #1 or #2
set_color_band@setcolor@Yz@Change to ribbon color #1.
set_color_pair@scp@sp@Set current color-pair.
set_foreground@setf@Sf@Set current foreground color1.
set_left_margin@smgl@ML@Set left margin at current line.
set_left_margin_parm@smglp@Zm@Set left (right) margin at column
@@@#1 (#2).
set_lr_margin@smglr@lr@Sets both left and right margins.
set_page_length@slines@YZ@Set page length to #1 lines (use
@@@tparm).
set_right_margin@smgr@MR@Set right margin at current column.
set_right_margin_parm@smgrp@Zn@Set right margin at column #1
set_tab@hts@st@Sets a tab in all rows, current
@@@column.
set_tb_margin@smgtb@MT@Sets both top and bottom margins.
set_top_margin@smgt@Zo@Set top margin at current line.
set_top_margin_parm@smgtp@Zp@Set top (bottom) margin at line #1
@@@(#2).
set_window@wind@wi@Indicates current window is lines #1
@@@to #2 cols #3 to #4.
start_bit_image@sbim@Zq@Start printing bit image graphics.
start_char_set_def@scsd@Zr@Start definition of a character set.
stop_bit_image@rbim@Zs@End printing bit image graphics.
stop_char_set_def@rcsd@Zt@End definition of a character set.
subscript_characters@subcs@Zu@List of ``subscript-able ''
@@@characters.
superscript_characters@supcs@Zv@List of ``superscript-able''
@@@characters.
tab@ht@a@Tabs to next 8-space hardware
@@@tab stop.
these_cause_cr@docr@Zw@Printing any of these characters causes a
@@@carriage return.
to_status_line@tsl@ts@Moves to status line, column #1.
underline_char@uc@uc@Underscores one character and
@@@moves beyond it.
up_half_line@hu@hu@Indicates superscript (reverse 1/2
@@@linefeed).
xoff_character@xoffc@XF@X-off character.
xon_character@xonc@XN@X-on character.
zero_motion@zerom@Zx@No motion for the subsequent character.
init_prog@iprog@iP@Locates the program for \*Linit\*O.
key_a1@ka1@K1@Specifies upper left of keypad.
key_a3@ka3@K3@Specifies upper right of keypad.
key_b2@kb2@K2@Specifies center of keypad.
key_c1@kc1@K4@Specifies lower left of keypad.
key_c3@kc3@K5@Specifies lower right of keypad.
prtr_non@mc5p@pO@Enables the printer for #1 bytes.
.TE
.PP
\f(HBNotes to table:\fP
.\"from TP 4"  
.VL 4
.LI "(P)"
Indicates that padding can be specified.
.\"from TP 4"  
.LI "(G)"
Indicates that the string is passed through \*Ltparm\*O
with parameters as given (#\*Vi\*O).
.\"from TP 4"  
.LI "(*)"
Indicates that padding can be based on the number
of lines affected.
.\"from TP 4"  
.LI "(#\*Vi\*O)"
Indicates the \*Vi\*Oth parameter.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following is an uncompiled
\*Lterminfo\*O
entry for the
\*Lxterm\*O
terminal type:
.oS
xterm|vs100|xterm terminal emulator,
.nL
        ind=^J, cols#80, lines#25,
.nL
        clear=\E[H\E[2J, cub1=^H, am, cup=\E[%i%p1%d;%p2%dH,
.nL
        cuf1=\E[C, cuu1=\E[A, el=\E[K, ed=\E[J,
.nL
        cud=\E[%p1%dB, cuu=\E[%p1%dA, cub=\E[%p1%dD,
.nL
        cuf=\E[%p1%dC, km,
.nL
        smso=\E[7m, rmso=\E[m, smul@, rmul@,
.nL
        bold=\E[1m, rev=\E[7m, blink=@, sgr0=\E[m,
.nL
        rs1=\E>\E[1;3;4;5;6l\E[?7h\E[m\E[r\E[2J\E[H, rs2=@
.nL
        kf1=\EOP, kf2=\EOQ, kf3=\EOR, kf4=\EOS, ht=^I, ri=\EM,
.nL
        vt@, xon@, csr=\E[%i%p1%d;%p2%dr,
.nL
        il=\E[%p1%dL, dl=\E[%p1%dM, il1=\E[L, dl1=\E[M,
.nL
        ich=\E[%p1%d@, dch=\E[%p1%dP, ich1=\E[@, dch1=\E[P,
.nL
        use=vt100-am,\*O
.oE
.PP
The first line of the
\*Lxterm\*O
entry contains two names for the terminal type
(\*Lxterm\*O and \*Lvs100\*O), and a third name
that fully describes the terminal.
When the
\*Lterminfo\*O
entry
is compiled with the
\*Ltic\*O
command, entries are made in
\*L/usr/lib/terminfo/x/xterm\*O
and
\*L/usr/lib/terminfo/v/vs100\*O,
unless the
\*ATERMINFO
environment variable was used to redefine the default path.
The
\*ATERMINFO
environment variable
is useful when testing a new entry, or when you do not have
write permission for the
\*L/usr/lib/terminfo\*O
directory tree.
For example, if the
\*ATERMINFO
environment variable is set to
\*L/usr/raj/test\*O,
the
\*Ltic\*O
command places the compiled
\*Lterminfo\*O
entries into
\*L/usr/raj/test/x/xterm\*O
and
\*L/usr/raj/test/v/vs100\*O.
The
\*ATERMINFO
environment variable is also referenced by programs that use
\*Lterminfo\*O
(such as
\*Lvi\*O),
so the new entry can be tested right away.
.PP
The second line of the
\*Lxterm\*O
entry says that pressing a \*LCtrl-j\*O causes the screen to scroll
up, and that the
screen dimensions are
80 columns by 24 lines.
.PP
The third line of the entry sets the string that clears the
screen (ESCAPE followed by "[H", another ESCAPE, and then the
string "[2J"), defines \*L<Ctrl-h>\*O as the backspace key, and declares that
the terminal has automatic margins.  The string for relative cursor
movement is also specified, using
\*Lterminfo\*O
parameter syntax.
.PP
The rest of the capabilities are declared likewise.  The last line of
the entry reads "\*Luse=vt100-am\*O"", meaning that the
\*Lvt100-am\*O
terminal entry should be read first as the basis for the
\*Lxterm\*O
terminal entry, with the capabilities explicitly defined overriding their
default
\*Lvt100-am\*O
values.
Note that the
\*Lsmul\*O,
\*Lrmul\*O,
\*Lvt\*O,
and
\*Lxon\*O
capabilities are removed by following them with an @ (at sign).
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Functions:  \*Lcurses\*O(3)
.PP
Commands:  \*Ltic\*O(1)
.PP
J. Strang, L. Mui, and T. O'Reilly.  \*VTermcap and Terminfo\*O.
Sebastapol, California: O'Reilly and Associates, Inc., 1990.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
