.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: term.4,v $ $Revision: 3.3.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/15 20:03:08 $
.\"
.TH term 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lterm\*O \- Terminal driver tables for nroff
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "term file" "format"
.iX "nroff text processor" "term file"
The \*Lnroff\*O(1) command uses driver tables to customize its output
for various types of output devices.  These driver tables are written
as C programs and compiled and installed in
\*L/usr/share/lib/term/tab\*Vname\*O.
The \*Vname\*O specifier is the name of a terminal type as used with
\*Lnroff -T\*Vname\*O.  The structure of the tables is as follows:
.PP
.oS
#define INCH 240
struct {
 int bset;
 int breset;
 int Hor;
 int Vert;
 int Newline;
 int Char;
 int Em;
 int Halfline;
 int Adj;
 char *twinit;
 char *twrest;
 char *twnl;
 char *hlr;
 char *hlf;
 char *flr;
 char *bdon;
 char *bdoff;
 char *ploton;
 char *plotoff;
 char *up;
 char *down;
 char *right;
 char *left;
 char *codetab[256\-32];
 char *zzz;
} t;
.oE
.PP
The fields have the following meanings:
.iX "term file" "field definitions"
.VL 13m
.LI "\*Vbset\*O"
Bits to set in the \*Vc_oflag\*O field of the \*Ltermio\*O structure
before output.  For further information, see \*Ltty\*O(7).
.LI "\*Vbreset\*O"
Bits to reset in the \*Vc_oflag\*O field of the \*Ltermio\*O
structure before output.
.LI "\*VHor\*O"
Horizontal resolution in fractions of an inch.
.LI "\*VVert\*O"
Vertical resolution in fractions of an inch.
.LI "\*VNewline\*O"
Space moved by a newline (linefeed) character in fractions of an inch.
.LI "\*VChar\*O"
Quantum of character sizes in fractions of an inch
(that is, a character is a multiple of \*VChar\*O units wide).
.LI "\*VEm\*O"
Size of an em in fractions of an inch.
.LI "\*LHalfline\*O"
Space moved by a half-linefeed (or half-reverse-linefeed)
character in fractions of an inch.
.LI "\*VAdj\*O"
Quantum of white space in fractions of an inch
(that is, white spaces are a multiple of \*LAdj\*O units wide).
.IP
Note: if this value is less than the size of the space
character (in units of \*VChar\*O; see the following
fields for how the sizes of characters are defined),
\*Lnroff\*O outputs fractional spaces using plot mode.
Also, if \*Lnroff\*O is used with the \*L\-e\*O flag,
it sets \*VAdj\*O to equal \*VHor\*O.
.LI "\*Vtwinit\*O"
The set of characters used to initialize the terminal in a mode suitable for
\*Lnroff\*.
.LI "\*Vtwrest\*O"
The set of characters used to restore the terminal to normal mode.
.LI "\*Vtwnl\*O"
The set of characters used to move down one line.
.LI "\*Vhlr\*O"
The set of characters used to move up one-half line.
.LI "\*Vhlf\*O"
The set of characters used to move down one-half line.
.LI "\*Vflr\*O"
The set of characters used to move up one line.
.LI "\*Vbdon\*O"
The set of characters used to turn on hardware boldface mode, if any.
.LI "\*Vbdoff\*O"
The set of characters used to turn off hardware boldface mode, if any.
.LI "\*Viton\*O"
The set of characters used to turn on hardware italics mode, if any.
.LI "\*Vitoff\*O"
The set of characters used to turn off hardware italics mode, if any.
.LI "\*Vploton\*O"
The set of characters used to turn on hardware plot mode (for Diablo
type mechanisms), if any.
.LI "\*Vplotoff\*O"
The set of characters used to turn off hardware plot mode (for Diablo
type mechanisms), if any.
.LI "\*Vup\*O"
The set of characters used to move up one resolution unit (\*VVert\*O)
in plot mode, if any.
.LI "\*Vdown\*O"
The set of characters used to move down one resolution unit (\*VVert\*O)
in plot mode, if any.
.LI "\*Vright\*O"
The set of characters used to move right one resolution unit (\*VHor\*O)
in plot mode, if any.
.LI "\*Vleft\*O"
The set of characters used to move left one resolution unit (\*VHor\*O)
in plot mode, if any.
.LI "\*Vcodetab\*O"
Definition of characters needed to print an \*Lnroff\*O character
on the terminal.  The first byte is the number of character units (\*VChar\*O)
needed to hold the character; that is, ``\\001'' is one unit wide,
``\\002'' is two units wide, and so on.  The high-order bit (0200) is on if
the character is to be underlined in underline mode (\*L.ul\*O).
The rest of the bytes are the characters used to produce the character in
question.  If the character has the sign (0200) bit on, it is a code
to move the terminal in plot mode.  It is encoded as follows:
.VL 1.25i
.LI "0100 bit on"
Vertical motion
.LI "0100 bit off"
Horizontal motion
.LI "040 bit on"
Negative (up or left) motion
.LI "040 bit off"
Positive (down or right) motion
.LI "037 bits"
Number of such motions to make
.LE
.LI "\*Vzzz\*O"
A zero terminator at the end.
.LE
.PP
All quantities that are in units of fractions of an inch should
be expressed as \*LINCH*\*Vnum\*O/\*Vdenom\*O, where \*Vnum\*O and
\*Ldenom\*O are respectively the numerator and denominator of the fraction;
that is, 1/48 of an inch would be written as ``INCH1/48''.
.PP
If any sequence of characters does not pertain to the output device,
that sequence should be given as a null string.
.PP
The source code for the terminal \*Vname\*O is in
\*L/usr/share/lib/term/tab\*Vname\*O.  When a new terminal type is added,
the makefile \*LMakefile.install\*O in that directory should be updated.
.SS Building New nroff Drivers
The \*L/usr/share/lib/term/mktab.o\*O object module is an \*Lnroff\*O
compiler-independent driver table generator tool.  It is intended
to be used as follows:
.iS
\*Lcc \-o /tmp/mktab tab\*Vxxx\*L.c mktab.o, /tmp/mktab > tab\*Vxx\*O
.iE
.SS Default nroff Drivers
The following \*Lnroff\*O drivers are provided by Digital Equipment
Corporation:
.VL 13m
.LI "\*Llpr\*O (default)"
Dumb 10-pitch printer with no halfline or upline capability.
.LI "\*Lcrt\*O"
Generic crt terminal (linked to \*Llpr\*O).
.LI "\*Lln03\*O"
Digital Equipment Corporation LN03S ASCII printer.
.LI "\*Lvt100\*O"
Digital Equipment Corporation VT100 crt terminal.
.LI "\*Llp\*O"
Default pseudo-printer device for the \*Lman\*O(1) and \*Lcatman\*O(8)
commands.  NOTE:  the \*Llp\*O driver as supplied by Digital is linked
to the \*Lvt100\*O device.  Your system administrator can change the
definition of \*Llp\*O to another device.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 13m
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/term/tab\*Vname\*O"
Driver tables
.LI "\*Ltab\*Vname\*L.c\*O"
Source file for the driver tables
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Ltty\*O(7)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
