.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ttys.4,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:24:11 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"
.\"build rmifdef
.\" @(#)ttys.4	1.1 09:57:42 6/3/91 SecureWare, Inc.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 SecureWare, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH ttys 4
.SH NAME
.PP
ttys \- Terminal control database file  (Enhanced Security)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ttys file"
.iX file ttys
.iX "terminal control database"
.iX database "terminal control"
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.rS 5
The secure terminal database file used on an nontrusted system is
\*L/etc/securettys\*O and is documented in the \*Lsecurettys(4)\*O
reference page.
.sp 6p
.rE
.PP
The system supports a single terminal control database that contains entries
for each terminal that can be used for logging in. Authentication
programs use information in the terminal control database to
determine if log in from the terminal is permitted. Additional fields are
maintained for informational purposes.
.PP
The format of the terminal control database file is identical to other system
authentication database files. For more information on the file format, see
the \*Lauthcap(4)\*O reference page.
The file consists of keyword field identifiers and values for
those fields. The following keyword identifiers are supported:
.VL
.LI "\*Lt_devname\*O"
This field defines the terminal device name for the entry. The system
expects that terminal devices are in the \*L/dev\*O directory
and therefore this
prefix should not be specified. If the terminal entry describes the
\*L/dev/tty1\*O device, the \*Lt_devname\*O field should contain \*Ltty1\*O.
.LI "\*Lt_uid\*O"
This field contains the user ID of the last user who successfully
logged in using the terminal device.
.LI "\*Lt_logtime\*O"
This field is a \*Ltime_t\*O value that
records the last successful login time to the terminal
device.
.LI "\*Lt_unsucuid\*O"
This field contains the user ID of the last user who unsuccessfully attempted
to log in using the terminal device.
.LI "\*Lt_unsuctime\*O"
This field is a \*Ltime_t\*O value that records the last unsuccessful
login time to the terminal
device.
.LI "\*Lt_prevuid\*O"
This field contains the user ID of the user who successfully
logged in before the user identified in the \*Lt_uid\*O field.
This represents the UID of the previous login
session.
.LI "\*Lt_prevtime\*O"
This field is a \*Ltime_t\*O value that
contains the system time of last logout associated with
this terminal device. This value marks the end of the previous login session
associated with the user identified by \*Lt_prevuid\*O.
.LI "\*Lt_failures\*O"
This field records the number of consecutive unsuccessful login attempts to
the terminal device.
.LI "\*Lt_maxtries\*O"
This field specifies the maximum number of consecutive unsuccessful login
attempts permitted using the terminal before the terminal is locked. Once the
terminal is locked, it must be unlocked by an authorized administrator.
.LI "\*Lt_logdelay\*O"
This \*Ltime_t\*O field identifies the login delay enforced by authentication
programs between unsuccessful login attempts. This field is designed to slow
the rate at which penetration attempts on a terminal device can occur.
.LI "\*Lt_lock\*O"
This field indicates whether the terminal device has been administratively
locked. This field is manipulated by authorized administrators only.
.LI "\*Lt_login_timeout\*O"
This field specifies the login time-out value in seconds. If a login attempt is
initiated by entering a username at the login prompt but successful
authentication is not completed within the time-out interval specified, the
login attempt will be aborted.
.LE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
The following example shows a typical terminal control database entry:
.oS
console:t_devname=console:
        :t_uid=reese:t_logtime#675430072:
        :t_unsucuid=reese:t_unsuctime#673610809:
        :t_prevuid=root:t_prevtime#671376915:
        :chkent:
.oE
.PP
This entry is for the system console device, \*L/dev/console\*O. The most
recent successful login session was for the user \*Lreese\*O. The most recent
unsuccessful login attempt was also by user \*Lreese\*O. Before the most
recent successful login session, the \*Lroot\*O account
was used to log in to the console.
The entry records the system time for the current
successful login, the end of the previous successful login session, and the
time of the most recent unsuccessful login attempt.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/auth/system/ttys\*O"
Specifies the pathname of the file.
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands: \*Llogin(1)\*O
.PP
Functions:  \*Lgetprtcent(3)\*O
.PP
Files: \*Lauthcap(4)\*O, \*Ldefault(4)\*O, \*Lsecurettys(4)\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
