.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tzfile.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/05/07 20:58:58 $
.\"
.TH tzfile 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ltzfile\*O \- Time zone information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "tzfile file"
.iX "time zone information file"
\*L#include <tzfile.h>\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The time zone information file used by \*Ltzset\*O begins with bytes
reserved for future use, followed by three 4-byte values
written in a ``standard'' byte order
(that is, with the high-order byte of the value written first).
These values are, in order:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Ltzh_timecnt\*O"
The number of transition times for which data is stored in the file.
.LI "\*Ltzh_typecnt\*O"
The number of local time types for which data is stored
in the file.  (This value must not be zero.)
.LI "\*Ltzh_charcnt\*O"
The number of characters of ``time zone abbreviation strings''
stored in the file.
.LE
.PP
This header is followed by \*Ltzh_timecnt\*O
4-byte values sorted in ascending order.
These values are written in ``standard'' byte order.
Each is used as a transition time (as returned by the time
at which the rules for computing local time change).
Next come the \*Ltzh_timecnt\*O 1-byte values of type \*Lunsigned char\*O.
Each value tells which of the different local time types
described in the file is associated with the same-indexed transition time.
These values serve as indexes into an array of \*Lttinfo\*O
structures that appears next in the file.
These structures are defined as follows:
.PP
.oS
struct ttinfo {
 long          tt_gmtoff;
 int           tt_isdst;
 unsigned int  tt_abbrind;
};
.oE
.PP
Each structure is written as a 4-byte value for \*Ltt_gmtoff\*O of type
\*Llong\*O, in a standard byte order, followed by a 1-byte value for
\*Ltt_isdst\*O and a 1-byte value for \*Ltt_abbrind\*O.  In each structure,
\*Ltt_gmtoff\*O gives the number of seconds to be added to GMT,
\*Ltt_isdst\*O tells whether \*Ltm_isdst\*O should be set by
\*Llocaltime\*O, and \*Ltt_abbrind\*O
serves as an index into the array of time zone abbreviation characters
that follows the \*Lttinfo\*O structure or structures in the file.
.PP
The \*Llocaltime\*O call uses the first standard-time \*Lttinfo\*O
structure in the file (or simply the first \*Lttinfo\*O
structure, in the absence of a standard-time structure)
if either \*Ltzh_timecnt\*O is zero or the time argument is less
than the first transition time recorded in the file.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lctime\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
