.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: utmp.4,v $ $Revision: 1.1.6.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/01 15:29:44 $
.\"
.TH utmp 4
.SH NAME
\*Lutmp\*O, \*Lwtmp\*O \- Login records
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L#include <utmp.h>\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "utmp file" "format"
.iX "wtmp file" "format"
.iX "login" "recording"
The \*Lutmp\*O
file records information about who is currently using the system.
The file is a sequence of entries with the following
structure declared in the include file:
.RS -10
.oS
struct utmp
{
 char ut_user[32] ;       /* User login name */
 char ut_id[14] ;         /* /etc/inittab id-IDENT_LEN in init */
 char ut_line[32] ;       /* device name (console, lnxx) */
 short ut_type ;          /* type of entry */
 pid_t ut_pid ;           /* process id */
 struct exit_status
   {
    short e_termination ; /* Process termination status */
    short e_exit ;        /* Process     /* time

 ut_exit ;                /* The exit status of a process
                           * marked as DEAD_PROCESS.
                           */
 time_t ut_time ;         /* time entry was made */
 char ut_host[64];        /* host name same as MAXHOSTNAMELEN */
} ;
.oE
.RE
.PP
This structure gives the name of the special file
associated with the user's terminal, the user's login name,
and the time of the login in the form of \*Ltime\*O(3).  The \*Lut_type\*O
field is the type of entry, which
can specify several symbolic constant values. The symbolic
constants are defined in the \*L/usr/include/utmp.h\*O
header file.
.PP
The \*Lwtmp\*O file records all logins and logouts.
A null user name indicates a logout on the associated terminal.
A terminal referenced with a tilde (~) indicates that the
system was rebooted at the indicated time.
The adjacent pair of entries with terminal names
referenced by a vertical bar (|) or a right brace (})
indicate the system-maintained time just before and just after a
\*Ldate\*O command has changed the system's time frame.
.PP
The \*Lwtmp\*O file is maintained by \*Llogin\*O(1)
and \*Linit\*O(8).
Neither of these programs creates the file,
so, if it is removed, record keeping is turned off.  See
\*Lac\*O(8) for information on the file.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 10m
.LI "\*L/usr/include/utmp.h\*O"
.LI "\*L/var/adm/utmp\*O"
.LI "\*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O"
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Llogin\*O(1),
\*Lwho\*O(1),
\*Lac\*O(8),
\*Linit\*O(8),
\*Llast\*O(8),
\*Llastcomm\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
