.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: uudemon.4,v $ $Revision: 1.1.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/10 18:05:41 $
.\"
.\"
.TH uudemon 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Luudemon.admin\*O, \*Luudemon.cleanu\*O, \*Luudemon.hour\*O, \*Luudemon.poll\*O \- Administrative shell scripts for polling remote systems, cleaning up spool directories, reporting status to the system administrator, and routine invocations of the \*Luuxqt\*O and \*Luusched\*O daemons
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
These shell scripts reside in the following directory:
.sS
   \*L/usr/lib/uucp\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "uudemon" "administrative shell scripts"
.iX "uudemon.hour" "administrative shell script"
.iX "uudemon.admin" "administrative shell script"
.iX "uudemon.cleanu" "administrative shell script"
.iX "uudemon.poll" "administrative shell script"
All the scripts can be run from the command line or can be run automatically
by the \*Lcron\*O daemon. To automatically run the scripts, remove the comment
character (\*L#\*O) from the beginning of the relevant line in the
\*L/var/spool/cron/crontabs/uucp\*O file.
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Luudemon.admin\*O"
This script reports status to the system administrator. It issues the
\*Luustat\*O command to find out the status of uucp jobs. It mails the results
to the \*Luucp\*O login ID. The script may be modified to send mail to any
login ID such as the \*Luucp\*O administrative login ID (\*Luucpa\*O) or root.
.LI "\*Luudemon.cleanu\*O"
This script cleans up the \*L/var/spool/uucp\*O and \*L/var/spool/uucppublic\*O
directories by running the \*Luucleanup\*O command. The \*Luucleanup\*O command
is run with the following parameters:
.nL
\*L-C7\*O, \*L-D7\*O, \*-X2\*O, \*L-o2\*O, \*L-W1\*O.
.LI "\*Luudemon.hour\*O"
This script runs the \*Luusched\*O and \*Luuxqt\*O daemons in the background.
.LI "\*Luudemon.poll\*O"
This script polls the systems listed in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Poll\*O file.
The \*Luudemon.poll\*O script should be scheduled before the \*Luudemon.hour\*O
script. This allows \*Luudemon.poll\*O to create any command files before
\*Lcron\*O runs the \*Luudemon.hour\*O script.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp\*O"
Contains the \*Luudemon.admin\*O, \*Luudemon.cleanu\*O, \*Luudemon.hour\*O and
\*Luudemon.poll\*O files.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/cron/crontabs\*O"
Contains the \*Luucp\*O file.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lcron\*O(8), \*Luucleanup\*O(8), \*Luusched\*O(8), \*Luuxqt\*O(1)
.PP
Files: \*L/usr/lib/uucp\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
