.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ypfiles.4,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/15 19:53:36 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)ypfiles.4 3.1 3/13/92
.TH ypfiles 4
.SH NAME
\*Lypfiles\*O \- Network Information Service (NIS) data base and directory structure
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ypfiles keyword"
.iX "NIS map" "format"
.iX "NIS map" "defined"
.iX "NIS domain" "defined"
The NIS data base lookup service uses a data base of \*Ldbm\*O files in the
\*L/var/yp\*O directory hierarchy. A \*Ldbm\*O data base consists of two
files, created by calls to the \*Ldbm\*O(3) library package.  One has the
filename extension \*L\&.pag\*O and the other has the filename extension
\*L\&.dir\*O.  For instance, the data base named \*Lhosts.byname\*O,
is implemented by the pair of files \*Lhosts.byname.pag\*O and
\*Lhosts.byname.dir\*O.
.PP
A \*Ldbm\*O data base served by NIS is called an NIS
\*Vmap.\*O
A NIS
\*Vdomain\*O
is a named set of NIS maps.
Each NIS domain is implemented as a subdirectory of \*L/var/yp\*O
containing the maps.
The number of NIS domains that can exist is unlimited.
Each domain can contain any number of
maps.
.PP
The NIS maps are not required by the NIS lookup service, although they may
be required for the normal operation of other parts of the system.
The NIS lookup service serves all maps. If the map exists in a given
domain and a client asks about it, NIS will serve it.  There is,
however, a set of default maps that the NIS service serves.  The files
representing these maps are listed in this description under Files.
.PP
For a map to be accessible consistently, it must exist on all NIS
servers that serve the domain.  To provide data consistency between the
replicated maps, an entry to execute the \*Lypxfr\*O command
periodically should be made in the \*L/var/spool/cron/crontab/root\*O file
on each slave server.  More information on this topic is in \*Lypxfr\*O(8).
An entry in the \*L/var/spool/cron/crontab/root\*O file must not exist, either
on a NIS master server or on a pure NIS client machine.
.PP
The NIS maps should contain two distinguished
key-value pairs.  The first is
the key YP_LAST_MODIFIED, whose value is a 10-character
ASCII order number.  The order number should be the \s-2UNIX\s0 time
in seconds when the map was built.  The second key is YP_MASTER_NAME,
with the name of the NIS master server as a value.
The \*Lmakedbm\*O(8) command generates both key-value pairs automatically.
A map that does not contain both key-value pairs can be served by
the NIS, but the \*Lypserv\*O process will not be able to
return values for ``Get order number''
or ``Get master name'' requests.
In addition, values of these two keys are used by \*Lypxfr\*O(8)
when it transfers a map from a master NIS server to a slave.
.PP
Before they can be properly accessed, the NIS maps must be initially
set up for both masters and slaves by using the \*Lypsetup\*O(8)
function.
Further, NIS maps must be generated and modified only
at the master server
location.  Copies of the master server NIS maps can then
be transferred to the
slave servers using the \*Lypxfr\*O(8)
function.
If \*Lypxfr\*O is unable to determine a map's location, or if it is unable to
determine whether the local copy is more
recent than the master copy, extra command line
switches must be set when it is executed.
.PP
After the server data bases are set up, the contents of
some maps may change.  In general, some ASCII source version of the
data base exists on the master.
This version should be changed with a standard text
editor.  The update is incorporated into the NIS
map and is propagated from
the master to the slaves by running \*L/var/yp/Makefile\*O. All
maps must have entries in \*L/var/yp/Makefile\*O. If an NIS map is added, the
\*L/var/yp/Makefile\*O must be edited to support the new map.
The makefile uses \*Lmakedbm\*O(8) to generate the NIS map on the master, and
\*Lyppush\*O(8) to propagate the changed map to the slaves.
The \*Lyppush\*O(8)
command is a client of the map
\*Vypservers,\*O
which lists all of the NIS servers.
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/var/yp/src/passwd\*O
.br
\*L/var/yp/src/group\*O
.br
\*L/var/yp/src/hosts\*O
.br
\*L/var/yp/src/networks\*O
.br
\*L/var/yp/src/services\*O
.br
\*L/var/yp/src/protocols\*O
.br
\*L/var/yp/src/netgroup\*O
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lmakedbm\*O(8), \*Lrpcinfo\*O(8), \*Lypmake\*O(8), \*Lyppoll\*O(8),
\*Lyppush\*O(8), \*Lypserv\*O(8), \*Lypsetup\*O(8), \*Lypxfr\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
