.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: accept.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/29 17:58:48 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH accept 2
.SH NAME
accept \-  Accepts a new connection on a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f3#include <sys/types.h>\f1
.br
\f3#include <sys/socket.h>
.ft R
.PP
\f3int accept\f1 (
.PP
	\f3int \f2socket\f3,
.br
	\f3struct sockaddr *\f2address\f3,
.br
	\f3int *\f2address_len \f3);
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP
\f2socket\f1
\f1Specifies a socket that was created with the
\f3socket(\|)\f1 function,
has been bound to an address with the
\f3bind(\|)\f1 function, and
has issued a successful call to the
\f3listen(\|)\f1 function.
.TP
\f2address
\f1Points to a
.BR sockaddr
structure,
the format of which is determined by the domain and
by the behavior requested for the socket.
The
.B sockaddr
structure is an overlay for a
.BR sockaddr_in ,
.BR sockaddr_un ,
or
.BR sockaddr_ns
structure, depending on which of the supported address families is
active.
If the compile-time option
_SOCKADDR_LEN
is
defined
before the
.BR sys/socket.h
header file
is included, the
.B sockaddr
structure takes 4.4BSD behavior,
with a
field for specifying the length of the socket
address.  Otherwise,
the default 4.3BSD
.B sockaddr
structure is used, with the length of the socket address assumed to
be 14 bytes or less.  
.sp 4p
You can specify NULL to indicate that the
address of the peer is not required.
.RS
.PP
If
_SOCKADDR_LEN
is defined, the 4.3BSD
.B sockaddr
structure is defined with the name
.BR osockaddr .
.RE
.TP
\f2address_len
\f1Specifies
the length of the
.B sockaddr
structure pointed to by the
\f2address\f1 parameter.
If the \f2address\f1 parameter is NULL then this
parameter is ignored.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "accept function"
.iX "socket" "accepting a connection"
.iX "connection" "accepting on a socket"
.iX "socket" "creating by accepting a connection"
.PP
The \f3accept(\|)\f1 function extracts the first connection
on the \f1queue\f1 of pending connections,
creates a new socket with the same properties as the specified socket,
and allocates a new
\f1file descriptor\f1 for that
socket.
.PP
If the \f3listen(\|)\f1 queue\f1 is
empty of connection requests, the \f3accept(\|)\f1 function
blocks a calling socket of the
\f1blocking\f1 type until a
connection is present, or
\f1returns an [EWOULDBLOCK] for sockets marked
\f1nonblocking\f1.
.PP
The accepted socket cannot itself accept more connections.
The original socket remains open and can accept more connections.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \f3accept(\|)\f1 function returns
the nonnegative socket descriptor of the accepted socket.  Additionally,
if the \f2address\f1 parameter was specified then it
places the address of the peer in the
.B sockaddr
structure pointed to by the
.I address
parameter, and sets
the
.I address_len
parameter to the length of
.IR address .
If the \f3accept(\|)\f1 function fails,
a value of -1 is returned
and
\f3errno\f1 is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \f3accept(\|)\f1 function fails,
.B errno
may be set to one of the following values:
.TP 1i
[EINVAL]
The socket
is not accepting connections.
.TP 1i
[EBADF]
\f1The \f2socket\f1 parameter is not valid.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding an errno value for ULTRIX compatibility.
.TP 1i
[ENOMEM]
The system was unable to allocate kernel memory to increase
the process descriptor table.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.TP 1i
[ENOTSOCK]
\f1The \f2socket\f1 parameter refers to a file,
not a socket.
.TP 1i
[EOPNOTSUPP]
\f1The referenced socket can not accept connections.
.TP 1i
[EFAULT]
\f1The \f2address\f1 parameter is not in a writable
part of the user address space.
.TP 1i
[EWOULDBLOCK]
\f1The socket is marked
\f1nonblocking\f1, and no connections
are present to be accepted.
.TP
[EMFILE]
There are too many open file descriptors.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
.BR bind (2),
.BR connect (2),
.BR listen (2),
.BR socket (2)
.iX "accept function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
