.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: access.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 17:15:47 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH access 2
.SH NAME
\*Laccess\*O \- Determines the accessibility of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS 
\*L#include <unistd.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint access\*O (\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char *\*Vpath\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vaccess_mode\*L) ;
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\" from TP  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vpath\*O"
Points to the file pathname.
When the \*Vpath\*O
parameter refers to a symbolic link, the
\*Laccess(\|)\*O
function returns
information about the file pointed to by the symbolic link.
.PP 
Permission to access all components of the \*Vpath\*O
parameter is determined by using a real user ID instead of
an effective user ID, a group access list (including a
real group ID) instead of an effective group ID.
.\" from TP  
.LI "\*Vaccess_mode"
\*OSpecifies the type of access. The bit pattern
contained in the \*Vaccess_mode\*O parameter is constructed by a logical
OR of the following values:
.VL
.LI "\*LR_OK\*O
Checks read permission.
.LI "\*LW_OK\*O
Checks write permission.
.LI "\*LX_OK\*O
Checks execute (search) permission.
.LI "\*LF_OK\*O
Checks to see if the file exists.
.LE 
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "access function"
.iX "file" "determining accessibility"
.iX "access" "file"
The \*Laccess(\|)\*O function checks for accessibility of the
file specified by a pathname.
.PP 
Only access bits are checked.
A directory may be indicated as writable by
\*Laccess(\|)\*O,
but an attempt to open it for writing will fail
(although files may be created there);
a file's access bits may indicate that it is executable,
but the
\*Lexecve(\|)\*O
function can fail if the file does not contain the proper format.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion,
the
\*Laccess(\|)\*O
function returns
value of 0 (zero).  Otherwise,
a value of -1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If the
\*Laccess(\|)\*O
function fails, access to the file specified by the \*Vpath\*O
parameter is denied and
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\" from TP 1i  
.VL
.LI "[ENOTDIR]"
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EINVAL]" 
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]" 
A component of a pathname exceeded PATH_MAX characters,
or an entire pathname exceeded NAME_MAX characters.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[ENOENT]" 
The named file does not exist or is an empty string.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EACCES]" 
Permission bits of the file mode do not permit the requested
access, or search permission is denied on a component of the
path prefix.  The owner of a file has permission checked with
respect to the ``owner'' read, write, and execute mode bits,
members of the file's group other than the owner have permission
checked with respect to the ``group'' mode bits, and all
others have permissions checked with respect to the ``other''
mode bits.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[ELOOP]" 
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EROFS]" 
Write access is requested for a file on a read-only file system.
.\" from TP 1i  
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Commenting out per Bob Picco.  This error is no longer supported.
.\" .LI "[ETXTBSY]" 
.\" Write access is requested for a pure procedure (shared text)
.\" file that is being executed.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EFAULT]" 
The
\*Vpath\*O
parameter
points outside the process' allocated address space.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EIO]" 
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lchmod\*O(2),
\*Lstat\*O(2)
.iX "access function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
