.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: acct.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 17:16:52 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH acct 2 "" "" "" "OSF_Security_Related"
.SH NAME
\*Lacct\*O \- Enables and disables process accounting
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lint\ acct (
.nL
	char *\*Vpath \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\" from TP  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vpath"
\*OSpecifies a pointer to the pathname of the file,
or specifies a null pointer.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "acct function"
.iX "accounting" "enabling and disabling"
.iX "process" "accounting"
.iX "accounting" "process"
.sp 
The \*Lacct(\|)\*O function enables and disables UNIX process
accounting.  When enabled, process accounting produces an accounting
record on behalf of each terminating process.
The \*Vpath\*O parameter specifies the pathname of the file to
which an accounting record is written.
When the \*Vpath\*O parameter is 0 (zero) or a null value, the
\*Lacct(\|)\*O function disables the accounting routine.
.sp 
\*OIf the \*Vpath\*O parameter refers to a symbolic link, the \*Lacct(\|)
\*Ofunction writes records to the file pointed to
by the symbolic link.
.sp 
If Network File System is installed on your system, the accounting
file can reside on another node.
\*OTo ensure accurate accounting, each node must
have its own accounting file, which can be located on any node in
the network.
.sp 
The calling process must have
superuser privilege
to enable or disable process accounting.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp 
Upon successful completion, the \*Lacct(\|)\*O function returns
a value of 0 (zero).  Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp 
If the \*Lacct(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\" from TP 1i  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EPERM]"
The calling process does not have appropriate
system privilege.
.\" from TP  
.LI "[ENOENT]" 
The file named by the \*Vpath\*O parameter
does not exist.
.sp
.\" from TP  
.LI "[EACCES]" 
The file named by the \*Vpath\*O parameter
is not an ordinary file.
.\" from TP  
.LI "[EACCES]" 
Write permission is denied for the named accounting
file.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EROFS]" 
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.sp 
Functions:
\*Lexit\*O(2),
\*Lsigaction\*O(2),
\*Lsigvec\*O(2),
\*Lexpacct\*O(3),
\*Lraise\*O(3)
.iX "acct function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
