.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: adjtime.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 17:17:55 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH adjtime 2
.SH NAME
\*Ladjtime\*O \- Corrects the time to allow synchronization of the system clock
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/time.h>
.sp .4v 
\*Lint adjtime (
.nL
	struct timeval *\*Vdelta\*L,
.nL
	struct timeval *\*Vold_delta \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\" from TP  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vdelta"
\*OPoints to the amount of time to be altered.
.\" from TP  
.LI "\*Vold_delta" 
\*OPoints to the number of nanoseconds still to
be corrected from an earlier call.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "adjtime function"
.iX "system clock" "synchronization"
.iX "system time" "adjusting"
.sp 
The \*Ladjtime(\|)\*O function makes small adjustments to the
system time (as returned by the \*Lgettimer(\|)\*O function), advancing
or decreasing it by the time specified by the \*Vdelta\*O parameter
of the \*Ltimeval\*O structure.  If \*Vdelta\*O is negative, the clock
is slowed down by incrementing it more slowly than normal until the
correction is complete.  If \*Vdelta\*O is positive, a larger increment
than normal is used until the correction is complete.
.sp 
The skew used to perform the correction is generally
a fraction of one percent.  Thus, the time is always a monotonically
increasing function.
.sp 
A time correction from an earlier call to
\*Ladjtime(\|)\*O
may not be finished when
\*Ladjtime(\|)\*O
is called again.  In this case, the delta remaining from the original
call is replaced by the delta of the current call.  If the
\*Vold_delta\*O
parameter is nonzero, then when the
\*Ladjtime(\|)\*O
function returns,
the structure pointed
to will contain the time remaining from the earlier call.
.sp 
This call may be used by time servers that synchronize the clocks
of computers in a local area network.  Such time servers would slow
down the clocks of some machines and speed up the clocks of others
to bring them to the average network time.
.sp 
The \*Ladjtime(\|)\*O function is restricted to users with
superuser
privilege.
.SH NOTES
.sp 
In BSD, system time is defined in units of seconds and microseconds,
while in POSIX real time extensions, the units are seconds and nanoseconds.
However,  the \*Ladjtime(\|)\*O function is not specified by POSIX.
Therefore, the existing BSD interface is preserved.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp 
Upon successful completion, the \*Ladjtime(\|)\*O function returns a 0
(zero).  If the \*Ladjtime(\|)\*O function fails,
a value of -1 is returned,
and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
\*OIf the \*Ladjtime(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\" from TP 1i  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EFAULT]"
An argument address referenced invalid memory.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EPERM]" 
The process's effective user ID does not have appropriate
system privilege.
.wH .rS
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.sp 
Functions:
\*Lgettimeofday\*O(2),
\*Lgettimer\*O(3)
.iX "adjtime function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
