.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: async_daemon.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 08:54:05 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1989 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)async_daemon.2	6.2 (Berkeley) 6/23/90
.\" 
.TH async_daemon 2
.SH NAME
\*Lasync_daemon\*O \- Creates a local NFS asynchronous I/O server
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lasync_daemon( void );\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "async_daemon function"
.iX "NFS" "creating local asynchronous I/O server"
.iX "asynchronous server" "creating in NFS"
The
\*Lasync_daemon(\|)\*O
function
starts  an
NFS compatible
asynchronous I/O server.
Normally this function does not return unless the server
is terminated by a signal.
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, 0 (zero) is returned.
Otherwise, \-1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp 
If the
\*Lasync_daemon(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to the following value:
.\" from TP 1i  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EBUSY]"
The system limit on asynchronous daemons has been exceeded.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.sp 
Functions:
\*Lnfssvc\*O(2)
.iX "async_daemon function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
