.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: audcntl.2,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:20:57 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)audcntl.2 x.x    10/01/90
.TH audcntl 2
.SH NAME
.PP
audcntl \- audit control (Enhanced Security)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\*L#include <sys/audit.h>\*O
.PP
\*Laudcntl (
\*Lint \*Vrequest,\*O
\*Lchar \*V*argp,\*O
\*Lint \*Vlen,\*O
\*Lint \*Vflag,\*O
\*Luid_t \*Vaudit_id,\*O
\*Lpid_t \*Vpid\*O);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "audcntl system call"
.iX "audit control"
The
\*Laudcntl\*O
system call provides control over options offered by the audit
subsystem. All requests, except where noted otherwise, are privileged.
The following list describes the requests:
.TP
\*LGET_SYS_AMASK\*O and \*LSET_SYS_AMASK\*O
The system auditmask (along with the process auditmask)
determines which system events are logged.
GET_SYS_AMASK copies the system auditmask into a buffer
pointed at by
\*Vargp.\*O
SET_SYS_AMASK copies from a buffer pointed at by
\*Vargp\*O
into the system auditmask.  Each of these operations
returns the number of bytes transferred between the user's
buffer and the auditmask.
The \*Vlen\*O argument
is the size of the user's buffer. The amount of data moved between
the auditmask and the user's buffer is the smaller of the auditmask size
and the buffer size.
.TP
\*LGET_TRUSTED_AMASK\*O and \*LSET_TRUSTED_AMASK\*O
The trusted auditmask (along with the process auditmask)
determines which trusted events are logged.
GET_TRUSTED_AMASK copies the trusted auditmask into a buffer
pointed at by
\*Vargp.\*O
SET_TRUSTED_AMASK copies from a buffer pointed at by
\*Vargp\*O
into the trusted auditmask. Each of these operations
returns the number of bytes transferred between
the user's buffer and the auditmask.
The \*Vlen\*O argument
is the size of the user's buffer.  The amount of data moved between
the auditmask and the user's buffer is the smaller of the auditmask size
and the buffer size.
.TP
\*LGET_PROC_AMASK\*O and \*LSET_PROC_AMASK\*O
The process auditmask determines (along with the system masks) which
system events and trusted events are logged for the current process.
GET_PROC_AMASK copies the process auditmask into a buffer pointed at by
\*Vargp.\*O
The size of the process auditmask is AUDIT_MASK_LEN,
and contains a syscall mask followed by a trusted event mask.
SET_PROC_AMASK copies the values from a buffer pointed at by
\*Vargp\*O
into the process auditmask. Each of these operations
returns the number of bytes transferred between the user's
buffer and the auditmask.
\*VLen\*O
is the size of the user's buffer. The amount of data moved between
the auditmask and the user's buffer is the smaller of the auditmask size
and the buffer size.
.TP
\*LGET_PROC_ACNTL\*O and \*LSET_PROC_ACNTL\*O
GET_PROC_ACNTL
returns the audit control flags (the audcntl flag) of the current
process (see \*Laudit.h\*O).
Audit control flags determine whether auditing for the process
is on or off, and if on, how the auditmasks are combined.  A value of
AUDIT_OFF indicates audit is off for that process.  A value of AUDIT_AND
or AUDIT_OR indicates the process auditmask is logically AND'ed or OR'ed
with the system auditmask.  A value of AUDIT_USR indicates the process
auditmask is used for that process; the system auditmask is ignored.
SET_PROC_ACNTL
assigns the values of the audit control flags from
\*Vflag\*O
and returns the previous values of the flags.
.TP
\*LGET_AUDSWITCH\*O and \*LSET_AUDSWITCH\*O
GET_AUDSWITCH
returns the value of the system audit switch.
A return value of 1 indicates auditing is turned on.
A value of zero indicates auditing is turned off.
SET_AUDSWITCH
assigns the value of
\*Vflag\*O
to the system audit switch and
returns the previous audit switch value.
A value of 1 turns auditing on.
A value of zero turns auditing off.
.TP
\*LFLUSH_AUD_BUF\*O
Flushes the kernel audit buffer out to
\*L/dev/audit\*O.
.TP
\*LGETPAID\*O and \*LSETPAID\*O
Not supported.
.\" GETPAID returns the audit ID of the calling process.  The GETPAID request
.\" does not require privilege.
.\" SETPAID assigns the value of
.\" \*Vaudit_id\*O
.\" to the process audit ID.
.\" SETPAID is effective only if
.\" \*Vaudit_id\*O
.\" is greater than 0.
.TP
\*LGET_AUDSTYLE\*O and \*LSET_AUDSTYLE\*O
The system auditing style supports various options to control how much
additional information is recorded in some audited operations.  GET_AUDSTYLE
returns the current value of the system audstyle flag.  SET_AUDSTYLE sets
the system audstyle flag to the value of
\*Vflag,\*O
and returns the previous value of the audstyle flag.  A flag value of
AUD_EXEC_ARGP enables the auditing of the argument list to the
\*Lexec\*O system calls.
A flag value of AUD_EXEC_ENVP enables the auditing of the
environment strings to
the exec system calls.
AUD_LOGIN_UNAME enables the auditing of the username in records for failed
\*Llogin\*O attempts.
Flag values may be
OR'ed together.
.TP
\*LGET_SITEMASK\*O and \*LSET_SITEMASK\*O
The sitemask determines which site-defined
events are logged.
\*LGET_SITEMASK\*O copies the sitemask into a buffer pointed
at by \*Vargp\*O.
\*LSET_SITEMASK\*O copies from a buffer pointed at by \*Vargp\*O into
the sitemask.
Each of these operations returns the number of bytes
transferred between the user's buffer and the sitemask.
The \*Vlen\*O
argument is the size of the user's buffer.  The amount of data moved
between the sitemask and the user's buffer is the smaller of the sitemask
size and the buffer size.
.TP
\*LUPDEVENTS\*O
Update the
\*Vauditmask\*O
and/or the
\*Vaudcntl\*O
flag for the specified
process or set of processes.
\*Vargp\*O contains the new auditmask; \*Vlen\*O is
the size of the user's buffer.  A \*Vlen\*O value of 0 will not modify the
target process' auditmask.
\*Vflag\*O, if not -1, contains the new
.PN audcntl
flag.  "pid", if not 0, specifies the target process.
\*Vaudit_id\*O, if not
AUID_INVAL, specifies the set of all processes with that \*Vaudit_id\*O.
.TP
\*LGET_HABITAT_EVENT\*O and \*LSET_HABITAT_EVENT\*O
\*LGET_HABITAT_EVENT\*O gets the habitat/system call name
and auditmask bits for a
specified system call number.
\*Vflag\*O is the system call number.
\*Vargp\*O points to a user
buffer of size \*Vlen\*O into which the habitat/system call name is placed.
The
return value is the auditmask bits, which indicate whether successful
and/or failed occurrences of this system call would be logged.
\*LSET_HABITAT_EVENT\*O sets the auditmask bits for the specified
habitat/system call name.
\*Vargp\*O points to a user buffer of size \*Vlen\*O which
specifies the habitat name and
system call name (for example, SystemV/\*Lunlink\*O).
\*Vflag\*O
is the new setting for the auditmask bits for this system call.
Note that these options apply only to system calls in the alternate habitats.
.TP
\*LGET_NSITEVENTS\*O
Returns the number of site events currently allowed on
the system.  This number is configurable from the
\*Laudit_data.c\*O file.
.TP
\*LGET_AUDSIZE\*O
Returns the base size of an audit data buffer.  This number
is configurable from the \*Laudit_data.c\*O file.
.TP
\*LGET_OBJAUDBIT\*O and \*LSET_OBJAUDBIT\*O
Not supported.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
.iX "audcntl system call" "return value"
.PP
The values returned for successful calls can be found under the
description of the specific call request.
.PP
If a call fails, a \-1 is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The
\*Laudcntl\*O
call fails under the following conditions:
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The
\*Vargp\*O
argument contains an invalid address.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
The user does not have the privileges needed to perform this operation.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The value of the
\*Vlen\*O
or
\*Vrequest\*O
or
\*Vaudit_id\*O
argument is invalid.
.TP 15
[ENOMEM]
Insufficient memory to accommodate site mask operation.
.\" .TP 15
.\" [EPERM]
.\" The user is not privileged to get or set the audit ID, or the user attempted
.\" to get the audit ID when it was not set.
.\" .TP 15
.\" [EOPNOTSUPP]
.\" The
.\" \*Vrequest\*O
.\" argument contains an unsupported operation.
.TP 15
[ENOSYS]
Indicates an attempt to use a system call that is not configured.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*EEnhanced Security\*O
.PP
\*EEnhanced Security\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
