.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: audgen.2,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:21:02 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)audgen.2        x.x     10/10/88
.TH audgen 2
.SH NAME
.PP
audgen \- generate an audit record (Enhanced Security)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\*L#include <sys/audit.h>\*O
\*Laudgen(
	\*Lint \*Vevent\*O,
	\*Lchar \*V*tokenp\*O,
	\*Lchar \*V*argv[]\*O,
	\*Lchar \*V*userbuff\*O,
	\*Llong \*V*size\*O);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "audgen system call"
The
.PN audgen
system call generates an audit record.
.PP
The argument
\*Vevent\*O
is an integer indicating the event type of the
operation being audited (see
.PN audit.h ).
The value of
\*Vevent\*O
must be
between MIN_TRUSTED_EVENT and MIN_TRUSTED_EVENT + N_TRUSTED_EVENTS \-1 or
between MIN_SITE_EVENT and MIN_SITE_EVENT + \*Vn_site_events\*O \-1.
The \*Vn_site_events\*O symbol is defined in the
\*L/usr/sys/data/audit_data.c\*O
file.
.PP
The argument
\*Vtokenp\*O
is a null-terminated array of \*Vtoken_type\*O (see
.PN audit.h ),
each of which represents the type of argument referenced by the
corresponding
\*V*argv\*O
argument.
.PP
The argument
\*Vargv\*O
is a pointer to an array containing either the actual
arguments or pointers to those arguments that are to be recorded in the
audit record.  A pointer to the actual argument is placed in that array
when the argument is a string, array, or other variable length structure.
Arguments represented as an int or a long are placed directly in that
array.
.\" Sterling change
.\" Each member of the array must be word-aligned.
.\" You cannot change the
.\" values for the audit_id, uid, ruid, pid, ppid, device, IP address, or
.\" hostid (secondary tokens for these values are available).
The available public tokens are listed in the
\*Laudit.h\*O file.
.PP
If \*Vsize\*O is nonzero,
\*V*size\*O is the size of \*Vuserbuff\*O provided to
\*Laudgen\*O, and the audit record created is not passed into the
system audit data stream, but is copied out to \*Vuserbuff\*O.
On return, \*V*size\*O is updated to the number of 
bytes data placed into \*Vuserbuff\*O.
If the size of the audit record exceeds \*V*size\*O,
then \*Verrno\*O is set to E2BIG.
Applications can use this feature to create their own audit records.
.iX "audit logs" "creating"
.iX "creating audit logs"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
.iX "audgen system call" "restricted"
The
.PN audgen
call is a privileged system call.
No record is generated for the system audit data stream if the specified
\*Vevent\*O
is not being audited
for the current process.
The maximum number of arguments referenced by
\*Vargv\*O
is AUD_NPARAM (128) with no more than 8 of any one \*Vtoken_type\*O.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion,
.PN audgen
returns a value of 0.
Otherwise, it returns a value of \-1 and sets the global integer variable
\*Verrno\*O
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.iX "audgen system call" "diagnostics"
The
.PN audgen
system call fails under the following
conditions:
.TP 15
[EACCES]
The user is not privileged for this operation.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The value supplied for the
\*Vevent,\*O
\*Vtokenp,\*O
or
\*Vargv\*O
argument is invalid.
.TP 15
[E2BIG]
The audit record exceeds the audit buffer size.
.TP 15
[ENOSYS]
Indicates an attempt to use a system call that is not configured.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Laudgenl\*O(3)
.PP
\*EEnhanced Security\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
