.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: bind.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.8 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:24:44 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH bind 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lbind\*O \- Binds a name to a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>\*O
.nL
\*L#include <sys/socket.h>\*O
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint bind\*O (\*L
.sp 0.4v
	\*Lint \*Vsocket\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct sockaddr \*V*address\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vaddress_len \*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\" from TP  
.VL
.LI "\*Vsocket"
\*OSpecifies
the socket descriptor of the socket to be bound.
.\" from TP  
.LI "\*Vaddress"
\*OPoints to a
\*Lsockaddr\*O
structure,
the format of which is determined by the domain and
by the behavior requested for the socket.
The
\*Lsockaddr\*O
structure is an overlay for a
\*Lsockaddr_in\*O,
\*Lsockaddr_un\*O,
or
\*Lsockaddr_ns\*O
structure, depending on which of the supported address families is
active.
.IP
If the compile-time option
_SOCKADDR_LEN
is
defined
before the
\*Lsys/socket.h\*O
header file
is included, the
\*Lsockaddr\*O
structure takes 4.4BSD behavior,
with a
field for specifying the length of the socket
address.  Otherwise,
the default 4.3BSD
\*Lsockaddr\*O
structure is used, with the length of the socket address assumed to
be 14 bytes or less.
.\" .wH .RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.sp
If
_SOCKADDR_LEN
is defined, the 4.3BSD
\*Lsockaddr\*O
structure is defined with the name
\*Losockaddr\*O.
.\" .wH .RE
.\" from TP  
.LI "\*Vaddress_len"
\*OSpecifies
the length of the
\*Lsockaddr\*O
structure pointed to by the
\*Vaddress\*O parameter.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "bind function"
.iX "socket" "binding a name"
.iX "bind" "socket name"
.iX "socket" "name"
The \*Lbind(\|)\*O function assigns an
\*Vaddress\*O to an unnamed socket.
Sockets created with the
\*Lsocket(\|)\*O function are
unnamed; they are identified only by their
address family.
.sp
An application program can retrieve the assigned socket name with
the \*Lgetsockname(\|)\*O function.
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBSecurity Note\fP
.sp 6p
.rS 5
If you have enhanced security installed on your system,
the \*Lbind(\|)\*O function operates as follows:
.PP
A bind that references a UNIX domain socket causes a socket file
to be created in the filesystem.  The access checks that are made are
identical to
those made by the \*Lopen(\|)\*O function when creating a new file.
.\" #endif /* SEC_BASE */
.sp 6p
.PP
.sp 6p
.ce 1
\f(HBEnd Security Note\fP
.sp 6p
.PP
.rE
.\" .wH .rS
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lbind(\|)\*O function returns
a value of 0 (zero).
\*OIf the \*Lbind(\|)\*O function fails,
a value of -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lbind(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\" from TP 1i  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EBADF]"
\*OThe \*Vsocket\*O parameter is not valid.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[ENOTSOCK]"
\*OThe \*Vsocket\*O parameter refers to a file,
not a socket.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EADDRNOTAVAIL]"
\*OThe specified address is not available
from the local machine.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EADDRINUSE]"
\*OThe specified address is already in use.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EINVAL]"
\*OThe socket is already bound to an address.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EACCES]"
\*OThe requested address is protected and the current
user does not have permission to access it.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EFAULT]"
\*OThe \*Vaddress\*O parameter is not in a readable
part of the user address space.
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
.\" from TP  
.LI "[EACCES]"
When using \*Lbind(\|)\*O in the UNIX domain,
the calling process does not have write permission to the parent
directory
of the file.
.\" #endif /* SEC_BASE */
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lconnect\*O(2),
\*Llisten\*O(2),
\*Lsocket\*O(2),
\*Lgetsockname\*O(2)
.iX "bind function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
