.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: chdir.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 18:57:26 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH chdir 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lchdir\*O, \*Lfchdir\*O \- Changes the current directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lint chdir (
.nL
	const char *\*Vpath \*L);
.sp .4v
\*Lint fchdir (
.nL
	int \*Vfiledes \*L);

.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\" from TP  
.VL
.LI "\*Vpath"
\*OPoints to the pathname of the directory.
.\" from TP  
.LI "\*Vfiledes\*O"
Specifies the file descriptor of the directory.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "chdir function"
.iX "fchdir function"
.iX "directory" "changing current"
.iX "current directory" "changing"
The \*Lchdir(\|)\*O function changes the current directory to
the directory indicated by the \*Vpath\*O parameter.
.PP
The
\*Lfchdir(\|)\*O
function changes the current directory to the directory
indicated by the
\*Vfiledes\*O
parameter.
If the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter refers to a symbolic link, the\*L
chdir(\|)\*O function sets the current directory to the directory
pointed to by the symbolic link.
.PP
The current directory, also called the current working directory,
is the starting point of searches for pathnames that do not begin
with a / (slash).   In order for a directory to become the current
directory, the calling process must have search access to the
directory.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The current working directory is shared between all threads within the
same process.  Therefore, one thread using the
\*Lchdir(\|)\*O
or
\*Lfchdir(\|)\*O
functions will affect every other thread in that process.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use \*Lchdir()\*O only
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lchdir(\|)\*O function returns
a value of 0 (zero).  Otherwise, a value of
-1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lchdir(\|)\*O function fails, the current directory
remains unchanged and
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\" from TP 1i  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EACCES]"
Search access is denied for any component of the pathname.
.\" from TP  
.LI "[ELOOP]"
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.\" from TP  
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The
\*Vpath\*O
parameter
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EIO]"
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file
system.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[ENOENT]"
The named directory does not exist, or
is an empty string.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[ENOTDIR]"
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.\" from TP  
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]"
The length of the
\*Vpath\*O
argument exceeds
PATH_MAX
or a pathname component is longer than
NAME_MAX.
.LE
.PP
If the
\*Lfchdir(\|)\*O
function fails, the current directory remains unchanged
and
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\" from TP 1i  
.VL 1i
.LI "[ENOTDIR]"
The file descriptor does not reference a directory.
.\" from TP  
.LI "[EBADF]"
The
\*Vfiledes\*O
parameter
is not a valid open file descriptor.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lchroot\*O(2)
.PP
Commands:
\*Lcd\*O(1)
.iX "chdir function"
.iX "fchdir function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
