.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: chown.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 19:23:59 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH chown 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lchown\*O, \*Llchown\*O, \*Lfchown\*O \- Changes the owner and group IDs of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lint chown(
.nL
	const char *\*Vpath\*L,
.nL
	uid_t \*Vowner\*L,
.nL
	gid_t \*Vgroup \*L);\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint lchown(
.nL
	const char *\*Vpath\*L,
.nL
	uid_t \*Vowner\*L,
.nL
	gid_t \*Vgroup \*L);\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint fchown(
.nL
	int \*Vfiledes\*L,
.nL
	uid_t \*Vowner\*L,
.nL
	gid_t \*Vgroup \*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vpath\*O"
Specifies the name of the file whose owner ID, group
ID, or both are to be changed.
When the
\*Vpath\*O parameter refers to a symbolic link, the behaviors of the
\*Lchown(\|)\*O and the \*Llchown(\|)\*O functions differ. The
\*Lchown(\|)\*O function changes the ownership of the file
pointed to by the symbolic link. The \*Llchown(\|)\*O function
changes the ownership of the symbolic link file itself.
.\" from TP  
.LI "\*Vfiledes\*O"
Specifies a valid open file descriptor.
.\" from TP  
.LI "\*Vowner\*O"
Specifies a numeric value representing the owner ID.
.\" from TP  
.LI "\*Vgroup\*O"
Specifies a numeric value representing
the group ID.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "chown function"
.iX "lchown function"
.iX "fchown function"
.iX "file" "changing owner and group IDs"
.iX "owner" "changing for a file"
.iX "group ID" "changing for a file"
.iX "file" "owner and group IDs"
The
\*Lchown(\|)\*O,
\*Llchown(\|)\*O
and
\*Lfchown(\|)\*O
functions
change the owner and group of a file.
.PP
A process can change the value of the owner ID of a
file only if the process has superuser privilege.
A process can change the value of the file group ID if
the effective user ID of the process matches the owner ID
of the file, or if the process has superuser
privilege.  A process without superuser privilege
can change the group ID of a file only to the value of its effective
group ID or to a value in its supplementary group list.
.PP
If the value of the owner ID is changed
and the process does not have superuser privilege,
the set-user ID attribute (the S_ISUID bit) of a regular
file is cleared.
.PP
The set-user ID attribute (S_ISUID
bit) of a file is cleared upon successful return if:
.\" from TP 4  
.ML
.LI
The file is a regular file.
.\" from TP  
.LI
The process does not have superuser
privilege.
.LE
.PP
The set-group ID attribute (S_ISGID
bit) of a file is cleared upon successful return if:
.\" from TP 4  
.ML
.LI
The file is a regular file.
.\" from TP  
.LI
The process does not have superuser
privilege.
.LE
.PP
If the
\*Vowner\*O
or
\*Vgroup\*O
parameter is specified as (\*Luid_t\*O)-1 or (\*Lgid_t\*O)-t respectively, the
corresponding ID of the file is unchanged.
.PP
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lchown(\|)\*O, \*Llchown(\|)\*O,
and
\*Lfchown(\|)\*O
functions mark the
\*Lst_ctime\*O
field of the file for update.
.\" from TP 1.5i  
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
(\*Lchown(\|)\*O)
.IP
Full use
(\*Llchown(\|)\*O)
.IP
Trial use
(\*Lfchown(\|)\*O)
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lchown(\|)\*O, \*Llchown(\|)\*O, and \*Lfchown(\|)\*O functions
return a value of 0
(zero). Otherwise,
a value of -1 is returned, the owner and group of the file remain
unchanged, and \*Lerrno\*O is
set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the
\*Lchown(\|)\*O and \*Llchown(\|)\*O
functions fail,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\" from TP 1i  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EACCES]"
Search permission is denied on a component of
\*Vpath\*O.
.\" from TP  
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The
\*Vpath\*O
parameter is an invalid address.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The owner or group ID is not a value supported by this implementation.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.\" from TP  
.LI "[ELOOP]"
Too many links were encountered in translating
\*Vpath\*O.
.\" from TP  
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]"
The length of the
\*Vpath\*O
argument exceeds
PATH_MAX
or a pathname component is longer than
NAME_MAX.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[ENOTDIR]"
A component of
\*Vpath\*O
is not a directory.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[ENOENT]"
The
\*Vpath\*O
parameter does not exist or is an empty string.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EPERM]"
The effective user ID does not match the ID of
the owner of the file, and the calling process does not have
appropriate privilege and
[_POSIX_CHOWN_RESTRICTED} indicates that such privilege is required.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EROFS]"
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.LE
.PP
If the
\*Lfchown(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\" from TP 1i  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EBADF]"
The file descriptor \*Vfiledes\*O is
not valid.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The owner or group ID is not a value supported by this implementation.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EROFS]"
The file referred to by \*Vfiledes\*O
resides on a read-only file system.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EPERM]"
The effective user ID does not match the ID of
the owner of the file, and the calling process does not have
appropriate privilege and
[_POSIX_CHOWN_RESTRICTED} indicates that such privilege is required.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lchmod\*O(2)
.PP
Commands:
\*Lchown\*O(1)
.iX "chown function"
.iX "fchown function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
