.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: chroot.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.7.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 17:21:24 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH chroot 2
.SH NAME
\*Lchroot\*O \- Changes the effective root directory
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lint chroot (
.nL
	const char *\*Vpath \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\" from TP  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vpath\*O"
Points to the new effective root directory.
If the \*Vpath\*O parameter refers to a symbolic link, the \*Lchroot(\|)\*O
function sets the effective root directory to the directory pointed
to by the symbolic link.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "chroot function"
.iX "directory" "changing root"
.iX "root directory" "changing effective"
.iX "directory" "effective root"
.PP
The \*Lchroot(\|)\*O function causes the directory named by
the\*V path\*O parameter to become the effective root directory.
.PP
The effective root directory is the starting point when searching
for a file's pathname that begins with a \*L/\*O (slash). The current
working directory is not affected by the \*Lchroot(\|)\*O function.
.PP
The calling process must have
superuser privilege
in order to change the effective root directory.  The calling process
must also have search access to the new effective root directory.
.PP
The .. (dot-dot) entry in the effective root directory is interpreted
to mean the effective root directory itself.  Thus, .. (dot-dot) cannot
be used to access files outside the subtree rooted at the effective
root directory.
.SH NOTES
.VL
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Trial use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero)
is returned.  If the \*Lchroot(\|)\*O
function fails, a value of -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lchroot(\|)\*O function fails, the effective root directory
remains unchanged and
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\" from TP 1i  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EACCES]"
Search permission is denied for any component of the pathname.
.\" from TP  
.LI "[EPERM]" 
The process does not have appropriate privilege.
.\" from TP  
.LI "[EFAULT]" 
The
\*Vpath\*O
parameter
points outside the process' allocated address space.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EIO]" 
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file
system.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[ENOENT]" 
The
\*Vpath\*O
parameter does not exist or points to an empty string.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]" 
The length of the
\*Vpath\*O
argument exceeds
PATH_MAX
or a pathname component is longer than
NAME_MAX.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[ENOTDIR]" 
A component of
\*Vpath\*O
is not a directory.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[ELOOP]" 
More than MAXSYMLINKS symbolic links are encountered while resolving
\*Vpath\*O.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lchdir\*O(2)
.PP
Commands:
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Changed chdir(1) to cd(1)
\*Lcd\*O(1)
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.EQ
delim off
.EN
