.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: close.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/24 20:41:04 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH close 2
.SH NAME
\*Lclose\*O \-  Closes the file associated with a file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lint close\*O (\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vfiledes \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\" from TP  
.VL
.LI "\*Vfiledes\*O"
Specifies a valid open file descriptor.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "close function"
.iX "file" "closing"
.iX "file descriptor" "closing"
The \*Lclose(\|)\*O function closes the file associated with
the \*Vfiledes\*O parameter.
.PP
All regions of a file specified by the \*Vfiledes\*O parameter that
this process has previously locked with the\*L lockf(\|)\*O function
are unlocked. This occurs even if the process still has the file
open by another file descriptor.
.PP
When all file descriptors associated with a pipe or FIFO special file have
been closed, any data remaining in the pipe or FIFO is discarded.
When all file descriptors associated with an open file descriptor
are closed, the open file descriptor is freed.
If the link count of the file is 0 (zero) when all file descriptors associated
with the file have been closed, the space occupied by the file is
freed and the file is no longer accessible.
.PP
When the
\*Lclose(\|)\*O
function needs to block, only the calling thread is suspended rather
than all threads in the calling process.
.PP
The last
\*Lclose(\|)\*O
for a \*Lstream\*O causes the \*Lstream\*O associated with
\*Vfildes\*O
to be dismantled. Dismantling includes popping any modules on
the stream and closing the driver.
If O_NDELAY and O_NONBLOCK
are clear and there are no signals posted for the \*Lstream\*O,
\*Lclose(\|)\*O
waits up to 15 seconds for each module to drain and up to
15 seconds for each driver to drain.
If the O_NDELAY or the O_NONBLOCK flag is set or if there are any
pending signals,
\*Lclose(\|)\*O
does not wait for output to drain, and dismantles
the \*Lstream\*O immediately.
If a STREAMS file is closed,
and the calling process had previously registered to receive
a SIGPOLL signal [see
\*Lsignal(\|)\*O]
for
events associated with that file [see I_SETSIG in
\*Lstreamio\*O(7)],
the calling process is unregistered for events associated with the file.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. Otherwise, a value
of -1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lclose(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\" from TP 1i  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EBADF]"
The \*Vfiledes\*O parameter is not a valid
open file descriptor.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EINTR]"
The
\*Lclose(\|)\*O
function was interrupted by a signal which was caught.
.LI "[ENOLINK]"
\*Lfildes\*O is on a remote machine and the link
to that machine is no longer active.
.LE
.PP
A \*Lclose(\|)\*O function on an NFS file system waits for all
outstanding I/O to complete.  If any operation completes with an
error, the error will be returned by \*Lclose(\|)\*O.  The possible errors
depend on the NFS server implementation, but the most likely errors
are:
.iX "close function" "and NFS file systems"
.iX "NFS file systems" "and the close function"
.VL 1i
.LI "[ENOSPC]"
.\"Attempted to write past the "early warning" EOT while
.\"this indicator was enabled.
.\".sp
Attempted to write on a full file system.
.\"at or beyond the end of a partition.
.LI "[EFBIG]"
Attempted to write a file that exceeds
the maximum file size.
.LI "[EIO]"
A read or write physical I/O error.
.\"These errors do not
.\"always occur with the associated function, but can occur with the sub-
.\"sequent function.
.LI "[EDQUOT]"
The write has failed because the user's disk block quota is exhausted.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lexec\*O(2),
\*Lfcntl\*O(2),
\*Llockf\*O(3),
\*Lopen\*O(2),
\*Lpipe\*O(2),
\*Lsocket\*O(2),
\*Lstreamio\*O(7)
.iX "close function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
