.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: connect.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/04/02 21:42:10 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH connect 2
.SH NAME
\*Lconnect\*O \- Connects two sockets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>\*O
.sp
\*L#include <sys/socket.h>\*O
.sp
\*Lint connect\*O (\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vsocket\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct sockaddr *\*Vaddress\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vaddress_len \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vsocket\*O"
Specifies the unique name of the socket.
.LI "\*Vaddress\*O"
Points to a \*Lsockaddr\*O structure, the format of which is
determined by the domain and by the behavior requested for the socket.
The \*Lsockaddr\*O structure is an overlay for a \*Lsockaddr_in\*O,
\*Lsockaddr_un\*O, or \*Lsockaddr_ns\*O
structure, depending on which of the supported address families is active.
If the compile-time option _SOCKADDR_LEN is defined before the
\*Lsys/socket.h\*O header file is included, the \*Lsockaddr\*O
structure takes 4.4BSD behavior, with a field for specifying the
length of the socket address.  Otherwise, the default 4.3BSD \*Lsockaddr\*O
structure is used, with the length of the socket address assumed to
be 14 bytes or less.
.IP
If _SOCKADDR_LEN is defined, the 4.3BSD \*Lsockaddr\*O structure is
defined with the name \*Losockaddr\*O.
.LI "\*Vaddress_len\*O"
Specifies the length of the \*Lsockaddr\*O structure pointed to by the
\*Vaddress\*O parameter.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "connect function"
.iX "socket" "establishing a connection"
.iX "connection" "establishing between two sockets"
The \*Lconnect(\|)\*O function requests a connection between
two sockets.  The kernel sets up the communications links between
the sockets; both sockets must use the same address format and protocol.
.PP
The \*Lconnect(\|)\*O function performs a different action for
each of the following types of initiating sockets:
.ML
.LI
If the initiating socket is SOCK_DGRAM, then the
\*Lconnect(\|)\*O function establishes the peer address.  The peer address
identifies the socket where all datagrams are sent on subsequent
\*Lsend(\|)\*O functions.
No connections are made by this\*L connect\*O function.
.LI
If the initiating socket is SOCK_STREAM, then the \*Lconnect(\|)\*O
function attempts to make a connection to the socket specified by the
\*Vaddress\*O parameter.  Each communication space interprets the
\*Vaddress\*O parameter differently.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lconnect(\|)\*O function returns
a value of 0 (zero).  Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lconnect(\|)\*O function fails, \*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.VL 1i
.LI "[EBADF]"
The \*Vsocket\*O parameter is not valid.
.LI "[ENOTSOCK]"
The \*Vsocket\*O parameter refers to a file, not a socket.
.LI "[EADDRNOTAVAIL]"
The specified address is not available from the local machine.
.LI "[EAFNOSUPPORT]"
The addresses in the specified address family
cannot be used with this socket.
.LI "[EISCONN]"
The socket is already connected.
.LI "[ETIMEDOUT]"
The establishment of a connection timed out before a connection was made.
.LI "[ECONNREFUSED]"
The attempt to connect was rejected.
.LI "[ENETUNREACH]"
No route to the network or host is present.
.LI "[EADDRINUSE]"
The specified address is already in use.
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The \*Vaddress\*O parameter is not in a readable
part of the user address space.
.LI "[EWOULDBLOCK]"
The socket is marked nonblocking, so the connection cannot be
immediately completed.  The application program
can select the socket for writing during the connection process.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Laccept\*O(2),
\*Lbind\*O(2),
\*Lsocket\*O(2),
\*Lgetsockname\*O(2),
\*Lselect\*O(2),
\*Lsend\*O(2)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
