.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getdirentries.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/04/26 19:39:20 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1989 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)getdirentries.2	6.2 (Berkeley) 6/23/90
.\" 
.TH getdirentries 2
.SH NAME
\*Lgetdirentries\*O \- Gets directory entries in a file-system independent format.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <dirent.h>
.sp
\*Lint getdirentries(
.nL
	int \*Vfd\*L,
.nL
	char *\*Vbuf\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vnbytes\*L,
.nL
	long *\*Vbasep\*L );
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vfd\*O"
Specifies the file descriptor of a directory to be read.
.LI "\*Vbuf\*O"
Points to a buffer containing the directory entries as \*Ldirent\*O structures.
.LI "\*Vnbytes\*O"
Specifies the maximum amount of data to be transferred, in bytes.
.LI "\*Vbasep\*O"
Points to the position of the block read.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getdirentries function"
.iX "directory" "returning entries in file-system independent format"
.iX "file-system independent format" "returning directory entries in"
The \*Lgetdirentries(\|)\*O function reads directory entries from a directory
into a buffer.  The entries are returned as \*Ldirent\*O structures,
a file-system independent format.
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Changed 'must' to 'should' per development.
The \*Vnbytes\*O parameter should be greater than or equal to the
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
block size associated with the file.  (See \*Lstat\*O(2).)
Some file systems do not support the \*Lgetdirentries(\|)\*O function
with buffers smaller than this size.
.PP
The entries returned by the \*Lgetdirentries(\|)\*O
function into the location pointed to by \*Vbuf\*O
can be separated by extra space.
.PP
The \*Lgetdirentries(\|)\*O function writes the position of the block
read into the location pointed to by the \*Vbasep\*O parameter.
Alternatively, the current position pointer can be set and retrieved by
\*Llseek(\|)\*O.  The current position pointer should only be set to a
value returned by \*Llseek(\|)\*O, a value returned in the location
pointed to by \*Vbasep\*O, or 0 (zero).
.PP
Upon successful completion, the actual number of bytes transferred is returned
and the current position pointer associated with the \*Vfd\*O parameter
is set to point to the next block of entries.  The file descriptor
pointer might not advance by the same number of bytes returned by the
\*Lgetdirentries(\|)\*O function.  A value of 0 (zero) is returned when
the end of the directory has been reached.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the actual number of bytes transferred is
returned.  Otherwise, \-1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lgetdirentries(\|)\*O function fails, \*Lerrno\*O
is set to one of the following values:
.VL 4m
.LI "[EBADF]"
The \*Vfd\*O parameter is not a valid file descriptor open for reading.
.LI "[EFAULT]"
Either the \*Vbuf\*O or \*Vbasep\*O parameter points outside the
allocated address space.
.LI "[EINVAL]"
Either the \*Vfd\*O parameter is not a valid file descriptor for a directory
or the buffer is too small.
.LI "[EIO]"
An I/O error occurred while the operating system was reading from or writing to
the file system.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lopen\*O(2),
\*Llseek\*O(2)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
