.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getdtablesize.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/24 20:49:16 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
.\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail 
.\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH getdtablesize 2
.SH NAME
\*Lgetdtablesize\*O \- Gets the descriptor table size
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lint getdtablesize ( void );
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "getdtablesize function"
.iX "descriptor table" "returning size of"
.iX "process" "descriptor table size"
.PP
The \*Lgetdtablesize(\|)\*O function returns the total number of file
descriptors in a process' descriptor table.
Each process has a fixed size descriptor table that is guaranteed
to have at least 64 slots. The entries in the descriptor table are
numbered with small integers starting at 0 (zero).
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding a paragraph that was in an Environment Note.
.PP
The \*Lgetdtablesize()\*O function returns the total number
of file descriptors that a process can have open simultaneously.  Each
process is limited to a fixed number of open file descriptors.  This limit
is at least 64.  The system defined limit is configurable.  If it is
greater than 64, the system will allocate more file descriptors for a
process up to the defined maximum.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lgetdtablesize(\|)\*O function returns the size of the
descriptor table, and is always successful.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lclose\*O(2),
\*Lopen\*O(2),
\*Lselect\*O(2)
.iX "getdtablesize function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
