.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getfh.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/04/12 18:18:54 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1989 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)getfh.2	6.2 (Berkeley) 6/23/90
.\" 
.TH getfh 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetfh\*O \- Gets a file handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\" The following was changed for Ag/Maint as per QAR 11924
.\".sS
.\"\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.\".nL
.\"#include <sys/mount.h>
.\".sp .4v
.\"\*Lgetfh(
.\".nL
.\"	char *\*Vpath\*L,
.\".nL
.\"	struct fhandle_t *\*Vfhp\*L );\*O
.\".sE 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.nL
#include <sys/mount.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lgetfh(
.nL
	int \*Vfd\*O;
.nL
	struct fhandle_t *\*Vfhp\*L );\*O
.nL
	int \*Vexp_fd\*O );
.sE
.\"End Digital correction.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\" from TP  
.VL
.LI "\*Vfd\*O"
File descriptor of the path to be exported.
.\" from TP  
.LI "\*Vfhp\*O"
Points to a \*Lfhandle_t\*O structure.
.LI "\*Vexp_fd\*O"
File descriptor of the exported path to use when applying export
options.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getfh function"
.iX "file" "returning the handle for"
.iX "file handle" "returning"
The \*Lgetfh(\|)\*O function
returns a file handle for the specified file or directory
in the file handle pointed to by the \*Vfhp\*O parameter.
This function is restricted to the superuser.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned.
Otherwise, \-1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lgetfh(\|)\*O function fails, \*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\" from TP 1i  
.VL 1i
.\"Begin Digital correction
.\"The follwoing changes were made as per QAR 11924.
.LI "[EBADF]"
One of the file descriptor parameters is not a valid file descriptor.
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The
\*Vfhp\*O
parameter
points to an invalid address.
.LI "[EPERM]"
The calling process does not have appropriate privilege.
.LI "[EREMOTE]"
The file system specified is not exportable.
.\".LI "[ENOTDIR]"
.\"A component of the path prefix of the
.\"\*Vpath\*O
.\"parameter
.\"is not a directory.
.\".\" from TP 1i  
.\".LI "[EINVAL]" 
.\"The
.\"\*Vpath\*O
.\"parameter
.\"contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.\".\" from TP 1i  
.\".LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]" 
.\"The length of a component of the
.\"pathname
.\"parameter
.\"exceeds NAME_MAX characters,
.\"or the length of the
.\"\*Vpath\*O
.\"parameter
.\"exceeds PATH_MAX characters.
.\".\" from TP 1i  
.\".LI "[ENOENT]" 
.\"The file referred to by the
.\"\*Vpath\*O
.\"parameter
.\"does not exist.
.\".\" from TP 1i  
.\".LI "[EACCES]" 
.\"Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix of the
.\"\*Vpath\*O
.\"parameter.
.\".\" from TP 1i  
.\".LI "[ELOOP]" 
.\"Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the
.\"\*Vpath\*O
.\"parameter.
.\".\" from TP 1i  
.\".\" from TP 1i  
.\".LI "[EIO]" 
.\"An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.\".\" from TP  
.iX "getfh function"
.LE
.\"End Digital correction
.EQ
delim off
.EN
