.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getgid.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 20:42:18 $
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH getgid 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetgid\*O, \*Lgetegid\*O \- Gets the process group IDs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lgid_t getgid ( void );\*O
.PP
\*Lgid_t getegid ( void );
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getgid function"
.iX "getegid function"
.iX "group ID" "returning real"
.iX "group ID" "returning effective"
.iX "process" "returning real and effective group IDs"
The \*Lgetgid(\|)\*O function returns the real group ID of the
calling process.
.PP
The \*Lgetegid(\|)\*O function returns the effective group ID
of the calling process.
.PP
The real group ID is specified at login time.
The effective group ID is more transient, and determines
additional access permission during execution of a
``set-group-ID'' process.  It is for such processes
that the \*Lgetgid(\|)\*O function is most useful.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lgetgid(\|)\*O and \*Lgetegid(\|)\*O functions return the
requested group ID.  They are always successful.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetgroups\*O(2),
\*Linitgroups\*O(3),
\*Lsetgroups\*O(2),
\*Lsetregid\*O(2)
.PP
Commands:
\*Lgroups\*O(1)
.iX "getgid function"
.iX "getegid function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
