.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getgroups.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 09:00:32 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH getgroups 2
.SH NAME
\*Lgetgroups\*O \- Gets the supplementary group set of the current process
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <unistd.h>
.nL
\*L#include <sys/types.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint getgroups (
.nL
        \*Lint \*Vgidsetsize\*O,\*L
.nL
        \*Lgid_t \*Vgrouplist\*L\|[\|] );
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\" from TP  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vgidsetsize"
\*OIndicates the number of entries that can
be stored in the array pointed to by the \*Vgrouplist\*O parameter.
.\" from TP  
.LI "\*Vgrouplist" 
\*OPoints to the array in which the process'
supplementary group set of the user process is stored.
Element
\*Vgrouplist\*L[0]\*O
is the effective group ID of the process.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "getgroups function"
.iX "process" "returning supplementary group set"
.iX "group set" "returning for current process"
.PP 
The \*Lgetgroups(\|)\*O function gets the supplementary group set
of the process.  The list is stored in the array pointed to by the \*Vgrouplist\*O
parameter.  The \*Vgidsetsize\*O parameter indicates the number
of entries that can be stored in this array.
.PP 
The \*Lgetgroups(\|)\*O
function never returns more than NGROUPS_MAX entries. (NGROUPS_MAX
is a constant defined in the \*Llimits.h\*O header file.)
If the \*Vgidsetsize\*O parameter is 0 (zero), the \*Lgetgroups(\|)\*O
function returns
the number of groups in the supplementary group set.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the \*Lgetgroups(\|)\*O function
returns the number of elements stored in the array pointed to by
the \*Vgrouplist\*O parameter. If \*Lgetgroups(\|)\*O fails, then a
value of -1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the \*Lgetgroups(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\" from TP 1i  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The \*Vgidsetsize\*O and \*Vgrouplist\*O parameters
specify an array that is partially or completely outside of the allocated
address space of the process.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EINVAL]" 
The \*Vgidsetsize\*O parameter is nonzero and smaller than
the number of groups in the supplementary group set.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lsetgroups\*O(2),
\*Lgetgid\*O(2),
\*Lsetsid\*O(2),
\*Linitgroups\*O(3)
.PP 
Commands:
\*Lgroups\*O(1)
.iX "getgroups function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
