.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: gethostname.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/12/23 20:12:13 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH gethostname 2
.SH NAME
\*Lgethostname\*O \- Gets the name of the local host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.sp
\*Lint gethostname\*O (\*L
.nL
	\*Lchar *\*Vaddress\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vaddress_len \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 10m
.LI "\*Vaddress\*O"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Revised the following sentence per QAR 9609:
.\" Returns the address of an array of bytes where the hostname is stored.
Specifies the address of an array of bytes where the hostname is stored.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.LI "\*Vaddress_len\*O"
Specifies the length of the array pointed to by the \*Vaddress\*O parameter.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "gethostname function"
.iX "host" "returning name of current"
.iX "hostname" "returning for current host"
The \*Lgethostname(\|)\*O function retrieves the standard host
name of the local host.\*V \*O If sufficient space is provided,
the returned \*Vaddress\*O parameter is null-terminated\&.
.PP
System hostnames are limited to MAXHOSTNAMELEN as defined
in the \*L/usr/include/sys/param.h\*O file.
.PP
The \*Lgethostname(\|)\*O function allows a calling process
to determine the internal hostname for a machine on a network.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned.
Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lgethostname(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to the following value:
.VL 1i
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The \*Vaddress\*O parameter or \*Vaddress_len\*O parameter
gives an invalid address.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgethostid\*O(2),
\*Lsethostid\*O(2),
\*Lsethostname\*O(2)
.iX "gethostname function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
