.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getitimer.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 20:45:40 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH getitimer 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsetitimer\*O, \*Lgetitimer\*O \- Sets or returns the value of interval timers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/time.h>
.sp .4v
\*L#define ITIMER_REAL   	0
.nL
#define ITIMER_VIRTUAL	1
.nL
#define ITIMER_PROF   	2
.sp .4v
\*Lint setitimer(
.nL
	int \*Vwhich\*L,
.nL
	struct itimerval *\*Vvalue\*L,
.nL
	struct itimerval *\*Vovalue\*L) ;
.sp .4v
\*Lint getitimer(
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vwhich\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct itimerval *\*Vvalue\*L) ;
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\" from TP 10  
.VL
.LI "\*Vwhich\*O"
Identifies the interval timer. This parameter may be expressed as
one of three symbolic constants: ITIMER_REAL, ITIMER_VIRTUAL,
and ITIMER_PROF.
.\" from TP 10  
.LI "\*Vvalue\*O"
Points to an \*Litimerval\*O structure whose
members specify a timer interval and the time left to the end of the
interval.
.\" from TP 10  
.LI "\*Vovalue\*O"
Points to an \*Litimerval\*O structure whose
members specify a current timer interval and the time left to the end of the
interval.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "setitimer function"
.iX "getitimer function"
.iX "interval timers" "setting and returning"
.iX "timeout" "setting and returning for interval timers"
The
\*Lgetitimer(\|)\*O
function returns the current value for the timer specified by the
\*Vwhich\*O
parameter
in the structure pointed to by the
\*Vvalue\*O
parameter.
.PP
The
\*Lsetitimer(\|)\*O
function sets a timer to the specified
\*Vvalue\*O
(returning the previous value of the timer if
\*Vovalue\*O
is nonzero).
.PP
A timer value is defined by the
\*Vitimerval\*O
structure:
.rS
\*Lstruct itimerval {
.nL
	struct	timeval it_interval;
.nL
	struct	timeval it_value;
.nL
};
.rE
.PP
If the
\*Lit_value\*O
field
is nonzero, it indicates the time to the next timer expiration.
If the
\*Lit_interval\*O
field
is nonzero, it specifies a value to be used in reloading
\*Lit_value\*O
when the timer expires.
Setting
\*Lit_value\*O
to 0 (zero) disables a timer.  Setting
\*Lit_interval\*O
to 0 causes a timer to be disabled after its next expiration (assuming
\*Lit_value\*O
is nonzero).
.PP
Time values smaller than the resolution of the
system clock are rounded up to this resolution.
.PP
The system provides each process with three interval timers,
defined in the
\*Lsys/time.h\*O
header file:
.\" from TP 4  
.ML
.LI
The ITIMER_REAL timer decrements in real time.  A SIGALRM signal is
delivered when this timer expires.
.\" from TP  
.LI
The ITIMER_VIRTUAL timer decrements in process virtual time.
It runs only when the process is executing.  A SIGVTALRM signal
is delivered when it expires.
.\" from TP  
.LI
The ITIMER_PROF timer decrements both in process virtual time and
when the system is running on behalf of the process.  It is designed
to be used by interpreters in statistically profiling the execution
of interpreted programs.
Each time the ITIMER_PROF timer expires, the SIGPROF signal is
delivered.  Because this signal may interrupt in-progress
system calls, programs using this timer must be prepared to
restart interrupted system calls.
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
Three macros for manipulating time values are defined in the
\*Lsys/time.h\*O
header file.
The
\*Ltimerclear(\|)\*O
macro
sets a time value to zero,
the
\*Ltimerisset(\|)\*O
macro
tests if a time value is nonzero, and the
\*Ltimercmp(\|)\*O
macro
compares two time values.
Beware that the comparisons \*L>=\*O and \*L<=\*O do not
work with the
\*Ltimercmp(\|)\*O
macro.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the value 0 (zero) is returned.  Otherwise,
-1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is
set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the
\*Lgetitimer(\|)\*O
or
\*Lsetitimer(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\" from TP 1i  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The \*Vvalue\*O parameter specified a bad address.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vvalue\*O parameter specified a time that was too large
to be handled.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgettimeofday\*O(2)
.iX "setitimer function"
.iX "getitimer function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
