.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getlogin.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 20:54:02 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1989 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)getlogin.2	6.1 (Berkeley) 6/25/90
.\" 
.TH getlogin 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetlogin\*O, \*Lgetlogin_r\*O, \*Lsetlogin\*O \- Gets and sets login name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.\" Add #include reference
\*L#include <unistd.h>
.sp 0.4v
.\" End Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
\*Lchar *getlogin( void );
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint getlogin_r(
.nL
	\*Lchar *\*Vname\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vlen \*L);
.sp 0.4v
\*Lsetlogin (
.nL
	char *\*Vname \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\" from TP  
.VL
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Points to the login name.
.\" from TP  
.LI "\*Vlen\*O"
Specifies the length of the buffer pointed to by
\*Vname\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getlogin function"
.iX "getlogin_r function"
.iX "setlogin function"
.iX "login name" "returning and setting"
The
\*Lgetlogin(\|)\*O
function
returns the login name of the user associated with the current session,
as previously set by the
\*Lsetlogin(\|)\*O
function.
The name is normally associated with a login shell
at the time a session is created,
and is inherited by all processes descended from the login shell.
(This is true even if some of those processes assume another user ID,
for example when the
\*Lsu\*O
command is used.)
.PP
The
\*Lsetlogin(\|)\*O
function
sets the login name of the user associated with the current session to
\*Vname\*O.
This call is restricted to the superuser, and
is normally used only when a new session is being created on behalf
of the named user
(for example, at login time, or when a remote shell is invoked).
.PP
The
\*Lgetlogin_r(\|)\*O
function is the reentrant version of
\*Lgetlogin(\|)\*O.
Upon successful completion, the login name is stored in
\*Vname\*O.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use (\*Lgetlogin(\|)\*O)
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lgetlogin(\|)\*O
function returns a pointer to a null-terminated string in a static buffer.
If the name has not been set, it returns null.
.PP
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lsetlogin(\|)\*O
function returns a value of 0 (zero).  If
\*Lsetlogin(\|)\*O
fails, then a value of \-1 is returned and an error code is
placed in \*Lerrno\*O.
.PP
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lgetlogin_r(\|)\*O
function returns a value of 0 (zero).  Otherwise, -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the
\*Lgetlogin(\|)\*O,
\*Lgetlogin_r(\|)\*O,
or
\*Lsetlogin(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\" from TP 1i  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The \*Vname\*O parameter gave an
invalid address.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vname\*O parameter
pointed to a string that was too long.
Login names are limited to MAXLOGNAME
characters
(defined in
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.\" Was sys/param.h
\*Lsys/user.h\*O).
.\" End Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EPERM]"
The caller tried to set the login name and was not the superuser.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lsetsid\*O(2)
.iX "getlogin function"
.iX "getlogin_r function"
.iX "setlogin function"
.PP
Command:
\*Lsu\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
