.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getpeername.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 09:02:16 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH getpeername 2
.SH NAME
\*Lgetpeername\*O \- Gets the name of the peer socket
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
.iS
.sp .4v
\*L#include<sys/types.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*L#include <sys/socket.h>\*O
.sp .4v
.nL
\*Lint getpeername\*O (\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vsocket\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct sockaddr *\*Vaddress\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint *\*Vaddress_len \*L);
.iE
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\" from TP  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vsocket"
\*OSpecifies
the descriptor number of a connected socket.
.\" from TP  
.LI "\*Vaddress" 
.wH .RS  Can not be used in nested lists
\*OPoints to a
\*Lsockaddr\*O
structure,
the format of which is determined by the domain and
by the behavior requested for the socket.
The
\*Lsockaddr\*O
structure is an overlay for a
\*Lsockaddr_in\*O,
\*Lsockaddr_un\*O,
or
\*Lsockaddr_ns\*O
structure, depending on which of the supported address families is
active.
If the compile-time option
_SOCKADDR_LEN
is
defined
before the
\*Lsys/socket.h\*O
header file
is included, the
\*Lsockaddr\*O
structure takes 4.4BSD behavior,
with a
field for specifying the length of the socket
address.  Otherwise,
the default 4.3BSD
\*Lsockaddr\*O
structure is used, with the length of the socket address assumed to
be 14 bytes or less.
.PP 
If
_SOCKADDR_LEN
is defined, the 4.3BSD
\*Lsockaddr\*O
structure is defined with the name
\*Losockaddr\*O.
.wH .RE
.\" from TP  
.LI "\*Vaddress_len"
\*OSpecifies
the length of the
\*Lsockaddr\*O
structure pointed to by the
\*Vaddress\*O parameter.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "getpeername function"
.iX "socket" "returning peer name"
.iX "peer name" "returning for a socket"
.iX "socket" "inherited by a process"
.PP 
The \*Lgetpeername(\|)\*O function retrieves the name
of the \*Opeer socket connected
to the specified socket.
.PP 
A process created by another process can inherit open sockets, but
may need to identify the addresses of the sockets
it has inherited.  The \*Lgetpeername(\|)\*O function allows a process
to retrieve the address of the peer socket at the remote end of the
socket connection.
.SH NOTES
.PP 
The
\*Lgetpeername(\|)\*O function operates
only on connected sockets.
.PP 
A process can use the
\*Lgetsockname(\|)\*O function
to retrieve the local address of a socket.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned and
the \*Vaddress\*O parameter holds the address of the peer socket.
If the \*Lgetpeername(\|)\*O function fails,
a value of -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the \*Lgetpeername(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\" from TP 1i  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EBADF]"
\*OThe \*Vsocket\*O parameter is not valid.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[ENOTSOCK]" 
\*OThe \*Vsocket\*O parameter refers to a file,
not a socket.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[ENOTCONN]" 
\*OThe socket is not connected.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[ENOBUFS]" 
\*OInsufficient resources were available in the
system to complete the call.
.\" from TP  
.LI "[EFAULT]" 
\*OThe \*Vaddress\*O or
\*Vaddress_len\*O
parameter is not in a writable
part of the user address space.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Laccept\*O(2),
\*Lbind\*O(2),
\*Lgetsockname\*O(2),
\*Lsocket\*O(2)
.iX "getpeername function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
