.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getpriority.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 21:03:39 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH getpriority 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetpriority\*O, \*Lsetpriority\*O \- Gets or sets process scheduling priority
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.iS
.sp .4v
\*L#include <sys/resource.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint getpriority(
.nL
	int \*Vwhich\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vwho \*L);\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint setpriority(
.nL
	int \*Vwhich\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vwho\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vpriority \*L);\*O
.iE
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vwhich"
\*OSpecifies one of PRIO_PROCESS, PRIO_PGRP,
or PRIO_USER.
.\" from TP  
.LI "\*Vwho"
\*OSpecifies a numeric value interpreted relative to the \*Vwhich\*O parameter
(a process identifier, process group identifier, and a user ID, respectively).
A 0 (zero) value for the \*Vwho\*O parameter denotes the current process,
process group, or user.
.\" from TP  
.LI "\*Vpriority"
\*OSpecifies a value in the range -20 to 20.  The
default \*Vpriority\*O is 0 (zero); negative priorities cause more favorable
scheduling.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getpriority function"
.iX "setpriority function"
.iX "process" "returning and setting scheduling priority"
.iX "scheduling priority" "returning and setting"
.iX "process group" "returning and setting scheduling priority"
.iX "user" "returning and setting scheduling priority"
The \*Lsetpriority(\|)\*O function
sets the scheduling priority of a process, process group, or user.
The \*Lgetpriority(\|)\*O function obtains the current priority of a
process, process group, or user.
.PP
The \*Lgetpriority(\|)\*O function returns the highest priority
(lowest numerical value) pertaining to any of the specified processes.
The \*Lsetpriority(\|)\*O function sets the priorities of all of
the specified processes to the specified value.  If the specified
value is less than -20, a value of -20 is used; if it is greater than
20, a value of 20 is used.
.PP
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion,
the \*Lgetpriority(\|)\*O function returns
an integer in the range -20 to 20.
Otherwise, -1 is returned.
.PP
Upon successful completion,
the \*Lsetpriority(\|)\*O
function returns 0 (zero).  Otherwise, -1 is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lgetpriority(\|)\*O or \*Lsetpriority(\|)\*O function
fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\" from TP 1i  
.VL 1i
.LI "[ESRCH]"
No process was located using the \*Vwhich\*O
and \*Vwho\*O parameter values specified.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vwhich\*O parameter was not recognized.
.LE
.PP
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lexec\*O(2), \*Lnice\*O(3)
.iX "getpriority function"
.iX "setpriority function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
