.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @OSF_COPYRIGHT@
.\" HISTORY
.TH getpgid 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetpgid\*O - Gets process group ID
.SH LIBRARY
.iX "get process group ID"
.iX "getpgid function"
.P
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*L#include <unistd.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lpid_t getpgid(
.nL
	pid_t \*Vpid\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vpid\*O"
Specifies the process ID of the target process; zero implies the calling
process.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lgetpgid(\|)\*O function returns the process group ID
of the process specified by the process ID \*Vpid\*O.  Specifying
a \*Vpid\*O of 0 (zero) returns the process group ID of the calling process.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lgetpgid(\|)\*O function returns the process group ID of the
process specified.  If there was an error, a value of -1 is returned
and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occurs, the
\*Lgetpgid(\|)\*O function sets \*Lerrno\*O to
the corresponding value:
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Removed EINVAL for silver release only -- per unx eng.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.VL
.LI "[EPERM]"
The specified process is not in the same session as the calling process,
and the calling process lacks sufficient privilege to read the specified
process.  As released, DEC OSF/1 does not check the privilege.
.LI "[ERSCH]"
No process has been found that has a process ID identical to that
specified by the \*Vpid\*O parameter.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lexec(2)\*O, \*Lfork(2)\*O, \*Lsetpgid(2)\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
