.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getrusage.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 21:16:34 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH getrusage 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetrusage\*O, \*Lvtimes\*O \- Gets information about resource utilization
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OBerkeley  Compatibility  Library  (\*Llibbsd.a\*O), \*Lvtimes(\|)\*O only
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.sp .4v
\*L#include <sys/time.h>
.nL
#include <sys/resource.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint getrusage (
.nL
	int \*Vwho\*L,
.nL
	struct rusage \*V*r_usage \*L);
.sp .4v
\*L#include <sys/vtimes.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lvtimes (
.nL
	struct vtimes \*V*par_vm\*L,
.nL
	struct vtimes \*Vch_vm \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\" from TP  
.VL
.LI "\*Vwho"
\*OSpecifies one of the following:
.wH .RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.\" from TP .5i  
.VL
.LI "RUSAGE_SELF"
Retrieve information about resources used by the current process.
.\" from TP  
.LI "RUSAGE_CHILDREN"
Retrieve information about resources used by child processes
of the current process.
.wH .RE
.\" from TP 1i  
.LE
.LI "\*Vr_usage"
\*OPoints to a buffer that will be filled in as
described in the \*Lsys/resource.h\*O header file.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "getrusage function"
.iX "vtimes function"
.iX "resource utilization" "returning information on"
.iX "process" "returning resource utilization for"
.PP
The \*Lgetrusage(\|)\*O function returns information describing
the resources utilized by the current process or its terminated
child processes.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The numbers the \*Lru_inblock\*O and \*Lru_outblock\*O fields
of the
\*Lrusage\*O
structure
account only for real I/O; data supplied by the caching
mechanism is charged only to the first process to read or write the
data.
.PP
The \*Lvtimes(\|)\*O function is supported to provide compatibility
with older programs.  It is superseded by the
\*Lgetrusage(\|)\*O
function.
.PP
The \*Lvtimes(\|)\*O function returns accounting information
for the current process and for the terminated child processes of
the current process.  Either \*Vpar_vm\*O or \*Vch_vm\*O or both
may be zero, in which case only the information for the pointers which
are nonzero are returned.
.PP
After the call, each buffer contains information as defined by
the contents of the \*Lsys/vtimes.h\*O include file.
.wH .rS
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lgetrusage(\|)\*O,
function returns 0 (zero).  Otherwise,
-1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lgetrusage(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\" from TP 1i  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
\*OThe \*Vwho\*O parameter is not a valid value.
.\" from TP 1i  
.LI "[EFAULT]"
\*OThe address specified for \*Vr_usage\*O is not
valid.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgettimer\*O(3),
\*Ltime\*O(3),
\*Ltimes\*O(3),
\*Lwait\*O(2)
.iX "getrusage function"
.iX "vtimes function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
