.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getsid.2,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/08 15:31:36 $
.\"
.TH getsid 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetsid\*O \- retrieves the session ID of a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lpid_t   getsid (
.nL
           pid_t  \*Vpid\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lpid\*O"
Specifies the process ID of a process.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getsid function" "retrieving session ID"
To obtain the session ID of a process, the \*Lgetsid\*O function
searches for a process with a process ID equivalent to the
\*Vpid\*O parameter.  If the \*Vpid\*O parameter is equivalent to
\*L(pid_t)0\*O, the session ID of the calling process is
retrieved by the \*Lgetsid\*O function.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lgetsid\*O function returns  the session ID of the
targeted process on success.  If the operation is not successful,
a value of \*L(pid_t)-1\*O is returned, and \*Lerrno\*O is set
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If an error occurs, \*Lerrno\*O is set as follows:
.VL
.LI "[EPERM]"
Specifies that the process with a process ID equal to the
value \*Vpid\*O is not in the same session as the calling
process.  The calling process does not have access to that
process.
.LI "[ESRCH]"
Specifies that a process with process ID specified by the
\*Vpid\*O parameter cannot be located.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lexec\*O(2), \*Lfork\*O(2), \*Lgetpid\*O(2),
\*Lsetpgid\*O(2), \*Lsetsid\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
