.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: gettimeofday.2,v $ $Revision: 1.1.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 23:34:36 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"
.TH gettimeofday 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgettimeofday\*O, \*Lsettimeofday\*O, \*Lftime\*O \- Gets and sets date and time
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.nL
\*Lftime()\*O call: Berkeley Compatibility Library (\*Llibbsd.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.sp
\*L#include <sys/time.h>
.nL
\*Lint gettimeofday (
.nL
	struct timeval *\*Vtp\*L,
.nL
	struct timezone *\*Vtzp \*L);
.nL
\*Lint settimeofday (
.nL
	struct timeval *\*Vtp\*L,
.nL
	struct timezone *\*Vtzp \*L);
.sp
\*L#include <sys/time.h>
.nL
#include <sys/timeb.h>
.nL
\*Lint ftime (
.nL
	struct timeb *\*Vtp \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 6m
.LI "\*Vtp\*O"
Points to a \*Ltimeval\*O structure, defined in the \*Lsys/time.h\*O file.
.LI "\*Vtzp\*O"
Points to a \*Ltimezone\*O structure, defined in the \*Lsys/time.h\*O file.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "gettimeofday function"
.iX "settimeofday function"
.iX "ftime function"
.iX "system time" "returning and setting"
.iX "system timezone" "returning and setting"
.iX "time" "returning and setting"
.iX "timezone" "returning and setting"
The \*Lgettimeofday(\|)\*O and \*Lsettimeofday(\|)\*O
are supported only for compatibility with BSD programs.  They have been
superseded by the \*Lgetclock(\|)\*O and \*Lsetclock(\|)\*O functions for
getting and setting the time, and by the user-level timezone-handling
package for getting and setting the timezone.  (See \*Lgetclock\*O(3)
and \*Lsetclock\*O(3) for information on the primary functions to use
for getting and setting time.  Also, see the section on Maintaining Timezone
Information in this reference page.)
.PP
The \*Lgettimeofday(\|)\*O and \*Lsettimeofday(\|)\*O functions get and set
the time and timezone information stored in the kernel.  However, since
local timezone information is not stored in the kernel (unless you are
running in the System V Habitat, discussed later in this reference page),
these functions should not be used to access timezone information.
.PP
The timezone structure that is returned by the \*Lgettimeofday()\*O
call is set at boot tim by the \*L/sbin/init.d/settime\*O script.
The \*Vtz_minuteswest\*O field of the structure is set to your local
time zone.  This field is set only for backward compatibility with older
applications that may use the \*Lgettimeofday()\*O call for timezone
information.  The \*Vtz_dsttime\*O field is set to zero because this
field is obsolete.  Therefore, these functions should only be used
for getting and setting time information.
.PP
The \*Vtp\*O parameter returns a pointer to a \*Ltimeval\*O
structure which contains the time expressed in seconds and microseconds
since midnight (0 hour), January 1, 1970 Greenwich Mean Time (GMT).
.PP
The \*Vtzp\*O parameter should be set to NULL since timezone information
should not be returned or set by these functions.
.PP
A process must have
the \*Lsysattr\*O effective
privilege to use \*Lsettimeofday(\|)\*O.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Lftime(\|)\*O function is included in \*Llibbsd.a\*O for
compatibility with older BSD programs.  Its function has been made
obsolete by \*Lgetclock(\|)\*O, \*Lsetclock(\|)\*O, and the
user-level timezone-handling package.
.SH SYSTEM V COMPATIBILITY
.PP
SVID2 maintains local timezone information in the kernel, although the
information is not as accurate or as complete as the information that can be
maintained at user level.  On SVID2-compatible systems, you can use the
\*Vtzp\*O parameter with
\*Lgettimeofday(\|)\*O and \*Lsettimeofday(\|)\*O to
get and set timezone information in addition to the time.
.PP
The \*Vtzp\*O parameter returns a pointer to a timezone structure that
contains the local timezone expressed in minutes of time westward from
Greenwich and a flag that, when nonzero, indicates that daylight
savings time applies locally during some part of the year.  Note that, if
the \*Vtzp\*O parameter is set to NULL, timezone information is not returned
or set.
.SH MAINTAINING TIMEZONE INFORMATION
.PP
DEC OSF/1 systems use a public domain timezone-handling package which
contains a database of globally accurate timezone information, including
daylight savings time changes.  Because of the complexity of this
information and the limitations of the kernel interface with regard to
timezone information, this information is not stored in the kernel.
As a result, the kernel time zone is permanently set to GMT and the
\*Lgettimeofday(\|)\*O and \*Lsettimeofday(\|)\*O functions are not used to
maintain local timezone information.
.PP
The following subsections explain how to get and set the local timezone.
The \*Lzic\*O(8), \*Lzdump\*O(8), and \*Ltzfile\*O(4) reference pages
contain details on the timezone-handling package.
.SS Getting Timezone Information
The \*Llibc\*O \*Lctime(\|)\*O and \*Llocaltime(\|)\*O routines return
the local time and timezone information.  The \*Lctime(\|)\*O routine
returns a string that corresponds to the local time; for example,
\*LTue Oct 27 13:35:29 1992\*O.
.PP
The \*Llocaltime(\|)\*O routine returns a pointer to a \*Ltm\*O structure
(defined in \*L<sys/time.h>\*O) that contains the local time expressed in
fields of the \*Ltm\*O structure.  For timezone information, there are
three relevant fields:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Ltm_isdst\*O"
A flag that is set to 1 if daylight savings time is currently in effect.
Otherwise, the flag is set to 0.
.LI "\*Ltm_gmtoff\*O"
Seconds east of Greenwich.  For example, \-18000 means 5 hours west of
Greenwich.
.LI "\*Ltm_tzone\*O"
Abbreviation for the current time zone (for example, EST, PDT, GMT).
.LE
.SS Setting Timezone Information
On DEC OSF/1 systems, global timezone information is stored in specially
formatted files in \*L/etc/zoneinfo\*O.  The file \*L/etc/zoneinfo/localtime\*O
is a link to the file in the \*L/etc/zoneinfo\*O directory which
corresponds to the local time.  This link is set by the installation software
and can be changed by the system administrator to any file in the
\*L/etc/zoneinfo\*O directory.
.PP
For example, to change the default system timezone to Canada's Atlantic
time zone, enter the following as superuser:
.PP
.iS
# ln \-s /etc/zoneinfo/Canada/Atlantic /etc/zoneinfo/localtime
.iE
.PP
Subsequent calls to the timezone-related functions in \*Llibc\*O
(\*Lctime(\|)\*O and \*Llocaltime(\|)\*O) use this link for the
default timezone information.
.PP
The \*L/etc/zoneinfo/src\*O directory contains the timezone and daylight
savings time information that is used to generate the specially formatted
files in the \*L/etc/zoneinfo\*O directory.  If this information is
incorrect for your time zone, you can change the information in the
source files and then use the \*Lzic\*O command to generate a corresponding
\*L/etc/zoneinfo\*O file.
.PP
A user can override the default timezone information by setting the TZ
environment variable.  (See \*Lctime\*O(3) for information on how to set
the TZ environment variable.)
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned.  Otherwise,
\-1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lgettimeofday(\|)\*O or \*Lsettimeofday(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O may be set the following value:
.VL 6m
.LI "[EFAULT]"
A parameter points to an invalid address.
.LI "[EPERM]"
The process's effective user ID does not have
the \*Lsysattr\*O effective privilege,
which is required for using \*Lsettimeofday(\|)\*O.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Ladjtime\*O(2),
\*Lctime\*O(3),
\*Lgetclock\*O(3),
\*Lgettimer\*O(3),
\*Lsetclock\*O(3),
\*Lstrftime\*O(3)
.PP
Files:
\*Ltzfile\*O(4)
.PP
Commands:
\*Ldate\*O(1),
\*Lzdump\*O(8),
\*Lzic\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
