.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ioctl.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/06 18:01:43 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" 
.\" @(#)ioctl.2	6.3 (Berkeley) 3/4/86
.\" 
.TH ioctl 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lioctl\*O \- Controls devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/ioctl.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lioctl(
.nL
	int \*Vd\*L,
.nL
	unsigned long \*Vrequest\*L,
.nL
	void * \*Varg\*L );\*O
.nL
.sE
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Removed duplicate "char argp );" line from SYNOPSIS.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*Vd\*O"
Specifies the file descriptor of the requested device.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vrequest\*O"
Specifies the \*Lioctl\*O command to be performed on the device.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Varg\*O"
Specifies parameters for this request.  The type of \*Varg\*O
is dependent on the specific \*Lioctl\*O() request and device to
which the ioctl is targeted.  See the appropriate Section 7 reference
page or the documentation accompanying the device for more information.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ioctl function"
.iX "file" "controlling a device file"
.iX "file" "device file control"
.iX "device file" "control operations on"
The
\*Lioctl(\|)\*O
function
performs a variety of operations
on open file descriptors.  In particular, many operating
characteristics of character special files (for example, terminals)
are controlled with
\*Lioctl(\|)\*O
requests.
.PP
An
\*Lioctl(\|)\*O
request
has encoded in it whether the parameter is an "in" parameter
or "out" parameter, and the size of the \*Varg\*O parameter in bytes.
Macros and defines used to specify an
\*Lioctl(\|)\*O
request are located in the
<\*Lsys/ioctl.h\*O>
header file.
.PP
The \*Lioctl(\|)\*O function
performs a variety of control functions on devices and STREAMS.
For non-STREAMS files, the functions performed by this call are
device-specific control functions.
The \*Lrequest\*O and \*Larg\*O parameters are passed to the file designated
by \*Lfildes\*O and are interpreted by the device driver.
This control is occasionally used on non-STREAMS devices, with the basic
input/output functions performed through the
\*Lread(\|)\*O
and
\*Lwrite(\|)\*O
system calls.
.PP
For STREAMS files, specific functions are performed by the
\*Lioctl(\|)\*O
function as described in
\*Lstreamio\*O(7).
.PP
STREAMS errors are described in
\*Lstreamio\*O(7).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If an error occurs, a value of \-1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the
\*Lioctl(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EBADF]"
The
\*Vd\*O
parameter is not a valid descriptor.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOTTY]"
The
\*Vd\*O
parameter is not associated with a character
special device.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[ENOTTY]"
The specified request does not apply to the kind
of object that the \*Vd\*O parameter references.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EINVAL]"
Either the
\*Vrequest\*O or \*Varg\*O parameter is not valid.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
<\*Lsys/ioctl.h\*O>
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lexec\*O(2),
\*Lfcntl\*O(2).
.\"\*Ltermio\*O(4).
.PP
Files:
\*Ltty\*O(7),
\*Llvm\*O(7),
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Moved streamio(7) from Functions: to Files:.
\*Lstreamio\*O(7).
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.iX "ioctl function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
