.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: kill.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 17:27:53 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.\"build rmifdef tbl eqn
.TH kill 2
.SH NAME
\*Lkill\*O \- Sends a signal to a process or to a group of processes
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
.sp .4v
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.sp .4v
\*L#include <signal.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint kill(
.nL
	pid_t\*O \*Vprocess\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vsignal\*O );\*L
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.VL 
.LI "\*Vprocess"
\*OSpecifies the process or group of processes.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vsignal" 
\*OSpecifies the signal. If the signal parameter is
a value of 0 (the null signal), error checking is performed but no
signal is sent. This can be used to check the validity of the\*O process
parameter.
.\"from TP "  
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "kill function"
.iX "process" "sending a signal to"
.iX "signal" "sending to a process or process group"
.PP 
The \*Lkill(\|)\*O function sends the signal specified by the \*Vsignal\*O
parameter to the process or group of processes specified by the \*Vprocess\*O
parameter.
.PP 
To send a signal to another process, at least one of the following must be
true:
.\"from TP 4"  
.ML
.LI
The real or the effective
user ID of the sending process matches the real or effective user ID
of the receiving process.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The process is trying to send the SIGCONT
signal to one of its session's processes.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The calling process has superuser
privilege.
.LE
.PP 
Processes can send signals to themselves.
.PP 
.SH NOTES
.PP
\*OSending
a signal does not imply that the operation is
successful. All signal operations must pass the access checks prescribed by
each enforced access control policy on the system.
.PP 
\*OIf the \*Vprocess\*O parameter is greater than 0 (zero), the
signal specified by the \*Vsignal\*O parameter is sent to the process
that has a process ID equal to the value of the \*Vprocess\*O parameter.
.PP 
If the \*Vprocess\*O parameter is equal to 0 (zero), the signal
specified by the \*Vsignal\*O parameter is sent to all of the
processes (other than system processes) whose process group ID
is equal to the process group ID of the sender.
.PP 
If the \*Vprocess\*O parameter is equal to -1 and the effective user
ID of the sender has root privileges, the signal specified by the
\*Vsignal\*O parameter is sent to all of the processes
other than system processes.
.PP 
If the \*Vprocess\*O parameter is negative but not -1, the signal
specified by the \*Vsignal\*O parameter is sent to all of the
processes which have a process group ID equal to the absolute value
of the \*Vprocess\*O parameter.
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the \*Lkill(\|)\*O function returns a
value of 0 (zero). Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the \*Lkill(\|)\*O function fails, no signal is sent and
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vsignal\*O parameter is not a valid signal
number.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EINVAL]" 
The \*Vsignal\*O parameter is SIGKILL, SIGSTOP,
SIGTSTP or SIGCONT and the \*Vprocess\*O
parameter is 1 (proc1).
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ESRCH]" 
No process can be found corresponding to that specified by
the \*Vprocess\*O parameter.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EPERM]" 
The real or saved user ID does not match the
real or effective user ID of the receiving process, the calling process
does not have appropriate privilege, and the process is not
sending a SIGCONT signal
to one of its session's processes.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EACCES]" 
The calling process does not have appropriate privilege.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lgetpid\*O(2),
\*Lkillpg\*O(2),
\*Lsetpgid\*O(2),
\*Lsigaction\*O(2),
\*Lsigvec\*O(2)
.iX "kill function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
