.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.1
.\"
.TH killpg 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lkillpg\*O \- Sends a signal to a process group
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.nL
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.nL
\*L#include <signal.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint killpg(
.nL
	pid_t\*O \*Vprocess_grp\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vsignal\*O);\*L
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vprocess_grp"
\*OSpecifies the process group.
.LI "\*Vsignal"
\*OSpecifies the signal. If the signal parameter is
a value of 0 (zero, the null signal), error checking is performed but no
signal is sent. This parameter
can be used to check the validity of the process
parameter.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "killpg function"
.iX "process group" "sending a signal to"
.iX "signal" "sending to a process or process group"
The \*Lkillpg(\|)\*O function sends the signal specified by
the \*Vsignal\*O
parameter to the group of processes specified by the \*Vprocess_grp\*O
parameter.
.PP
The process sending the signal must have the same effective user ID
as the members of the process group, or the sending process must
belong to the superuser.  The continue signal, SIGCONT, is a special case:
it may be sent to any process that is a descendent of the current
process.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lkillpg(\|)\*O function returns a
value of 0 (zero). Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned, and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occurs, the \*Lkill(\|)\*O function
sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vsignal\*O parameter is not a valid signal
number.
.LI "[ESRCH]"
No process can be found in \*Vprocess_grp\*O.
.LI "[ESRCH]"
The process group was given as 0 (zero), but the sending process does not
have a process group.
.LI "[EPERM]"
The real or saved user ID does not match the
real or effective user ID of the receiving process, the calling process
does not have the appropriate privilege, and the process is not
sending a \*LSIGCONT\*O signal
to one of its session's processes.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetpid\*O(2),
\*Lkill\*O(2),
\*Lsetpgid\*O(2),
\*Lsigaction\*O(2),
\*Lsigvec\*O(2).
.iX "kill function"
.iX "killpg function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
