.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: link.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 17:29:27 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH link 2
.SH NAME
\*Llink\*O \- Creates an additional directory entry for an existing file on  current file system
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
.sp .4v
\*Lint link (
.nL
	const char *\*Vpath1\*L,
.nL
	const char *\*Vpath2 \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.VL 
.LI "\*Vpath1\*O"
Points to the pathname of an existing file.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vpath2\*O" 
Points to the pathname for the directory entry
to be created.
If the
\*Vpath2\*O
parameter
names a symbolic link, an error is returned.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "link function"
.iX "file" "creating a link for"
.iX "link" "creating"
.PP 
The \*Llink(\|)\*O function creates an additional hard link (directory
entry) for an existing file.  Both the old and the new link share equal
access rights to the underlying object.
The
\*Llink(\|)\*O
function atomically creates a new link for the existing file and
increments the link count of the file by one.
.PP 
Both the \*Vpath1\*O and  \*Vpath2\*O parameters
must reside on the same file system. A hard link to a directory cannot
be created.
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the
\*Llink(\|)\*O
function marks the
\*Lst_ctime\*O
field of the file for update, and marks the
\*Lst_ctime\*O
and
\*Lst_mtime\*O
fields of the directory containing the new entry for update.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the \*Llink(\|)\*O function returns
a value of 0 (zero). If the \*Llink(\|)\*O function fails, a value of -1
is returned, no link is created,
and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the \*Llink(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[ENOENT]"
The file named by the \*Vpath1\*O parameter
does not exist or the
\*Vpath1\*O
or
\*Vpath2\*O
parameter
is an empty string.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EFAULT]" 
Either the
\*Vpath1\*O
or
\*Vpath2\*O
parameter is an invalid address.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EEXIST]" 
The link named by the \*Vpath2\*O parameter
already exists.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EPERM]" 
The file named by the \*Vpath1\*O parameter
is a directory.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EXDEV]" 
The link named by the \*Vpath2\*O parameter
and the file named by the \*Vpath1\*O parameter are on different
file systems.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EACCES]" 
The requested link requires writing in a directory
with a mode that denies write permission, or a component of either the
\*Vpath1\*O
or
\*Vpath2\*O
parameter
denies search permission.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EMLINK]" 
The number of links to the file named by
\*Vpath1\*O
would exceed LINK_MAX.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EROFS]" 
The requested link requires writing in a directory
on a read-only file system.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOSPC]" 
The directory in which the entry for the new
link is being placed cannot be extended because there is no space
left on the file system containing the directory.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[ELOOP]" 
Too many links were encountered in translating
either
\*Vpath1\*O
or
\*Vpath2\*O.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]" 
The length of the
\*Vpath1\*O
or
\*Vpath2\*O
string exceeds PATH_MAX or a pathname component is longer than
NAME_MAX.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOTDIR]" 
A component of either path prefix is not a directory.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EDQUOT]" 
The directory in which the entry for the new
link is being placed cannot be extended because the user's quota of
disk blocks on the file system containing the directory has been exhausted.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lunlink\*O(2)
.PP 
Commands:
\*Llink\*O(1)
.iX "link function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
