.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: lseek.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/28 12:27:40 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH lseek 2
.SH NAME
\*Llseek\*O \-  Moves read-write file offset
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
.sp .4v
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.nL
#include <unistd.h>\*L
.sp .4v
\*Loff_t lseek (
.nL
	int \*Vfiledes\*L,
.nL
	off_t \*Voffset\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vwhence \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vfiledes\*O"
Specifies a file descriptor obtained from
a successful \*Lopen(\|)\*O or \*Lfcntl(\|)\*O function.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Voffset\*O" 
Specifies a value, in bytes, that is used in conjunction
with the \*Vwhence\*O parameter to set the file pointer. A negative
value causes seeking in the reverse direction. The resulting file
position may also be negative.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vwhence\*O" 
Specifies how to interpret
the  \*Voffset\*O parameter in setting the file pointer
associated with the\*V filedes\*O
parameter.
Values for the
\*Vwhence\*O
parameter are:
.wH .RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL
.LI "SEEK_SET" 
Sets the file pointer to the value of the \*Voffset\*O parameter.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "SEEK_CUR" 
Sets the file pointer to its current location
plus the value of the \*Voffset \*Oparameter.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "SEEK_END" 
Sets the file pointer to the size of the file
plus the value of the \*Voffset \*Oparameter.
.wH .RE
.LE
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "lseek function"
.iX "file" "moving read-write offset"
.iX "read-write offset" "moving for a file"
.PP 
The \*Llseek(\|)\*O function sets the file offset for the open
file specified by the \*Vfiledes \*Oparameter.
The
\*Vwhence\*O
parameter determines how the offset is to be interpreted.
.PP 
The
\*Llseek(\|)\*O
function allows the file offset to be set beyond the end of
existing data in the file.  If data is later written at this point,
subsequently reading data in the gap returns bytes with the value 0
(zero)
until data is actually written into the gap.
.PP 
The
\*Llseek(\|)\*O
function does not, by itself, extend the size of the file.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the resulting pointer location, measured
in bytes from the beginning of the file, is returned. If the \*Llseek(\|)\*O function fails, the file offset remains unchanged, a value of
(\*Loff_t\*O) - 1 is returned, and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the \*Llseek(\|)\*O function fails, the file offset remains
unchanged and
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EBADF]"
The \*Vfiledes\*O parameter is not an open file descriptor.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[ESPIPE]" 
The \*Vfiledes\*O parameter is associated
with a pipe (FIFO), a socket, or a multiplexed special file.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EINVAL]" 
The \*Vwhence\*O parameter is an invalid value, or the resulting file
offset would be invalid.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lfcntl\*O(2),
\*Lfseek\*O(3),
\*Lopen\*O(2),
\*Lread\*O(2),
\*Lwrite\*O(2)
.iX "lseek function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
