.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: madvise.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 09:05:56 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH madvise 2
.SH NAME
\*Lmadvise\*O \- Advise the system of a process' expected paging behavior
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.sp .4v
\*L#include <sys/mman.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint madvise (
.nL
	\*Lcaddr_t \*Vaddr\*L,
.nL
	\*Lsize_t \*Vlen\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vbehav \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vaddr\*O"
Specifies the address of the region to which
the advice refers.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vlen\*O" 
Specifies the length in bytes of the region specified by the
\*Vaddr\*O
parameter.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vbehav\*O" 
Specifies the behavior of the region.
The following values
for the \*Vbehav\*O parameter are defined in the \*Lsys/mman.h\*O
header file:
.wH .RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.\"from TP .5i"  
.VL
.LI "MADV_NORMAL" 
No further special treatment
.\"from TP "  
.LI "MADV_RANDOM" 
Expect random page references
.\"from TP "  
.LI "MADV_SEQUENTIAL" 
Expect sequential references
.\"from TP "  
.LI "MADV_WILLNEED" 
Will need these pages
.\"from TP "  
.LI "MADV_DONTNEED" 
Do not need these pages
.\"from TP "  
.LI "MADV_SPACEAVAIL" 
Ensure that resources are reserved
.wH .RE
.LE
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "madvise function"
.iX "process" "advising the system of paging behavior"
.iX "paging" "expected behavior for a process"
.PP 
The
\*Lmadvise(\|)\*O
function permits a process to advise the system about its expected
future behavior in referencing a mapped file or shared memory region.
.SH NOTES
.PP 
The
\*Lmadvise(\|)\*O
function has no functionality in OSF/1.  It is supported for
compatibility only.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Trial use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lmadvise(\|)\*O function returns zero.  Otherwise,
-1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
If the \*Lmadvise(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vbehav\*O parameter is invalid.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOSPC]" 
The
\*Vbehav\*O
parameter specifies MADV_SPACEAVAIL and resources
can not be reserved.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
Functions:
\*Lmmap\*O(2)
.iX "madvise function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
