.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mkdir.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/28 16:29:18 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH mkdir 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lmkdir\*O \- Creates a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/stat.h>
.sp .4v
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint mkdir (
.nL
	const char *\*Vpath\*L,
.nL
	mode_t \*Vmode \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vpath\*O"
Specifies the name of the new directory.  If NFS
is installed on your system, this path can cross into another node.
In this case, the new directory is created at that node.
If the final component of the
\*Vpath\*O parameter refers to a symbolic link, the
link is traversed and pathname resolution continues.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vmode\*O"
Specifies the mask for the read, write, and execute (RWX)
flags for owner, group, and others.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "mkdir function"
.iX "directory" "creating"
.iX "file" "creating a directory"
The \*Lmkdir(\|)\*O function creates a new directory
with the following attributes:
.\"from TP .3i"  
.ML
.LI
The owner ID is set to the process's effective user ID.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The group ID is set to the group ID of its parent directory.
.\"from TP "  
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" The following information is included for the System V habitat
.\" (silver release)
However, if the \*Lsys_v_mode\*O tunable is set, then
the group ID of the file is set to the effective group ID of the
process.  With exception, if the S_ISGID bit of the parent directory is
set, the group ID of the file is set to the group ID of the parent
directory and its S_ISGID bit is set.
.sp
If the group ID of the new file does not match the effective group of
the process or one of the supplementary group IDs of the process, the
S_ISGID bit of the new file is cleared.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI
Permission and attribute bits are set according to the value of the \*Vmode\*O
parameter
modified by the process's file
creation mask (see the \*Lumask(\|)\*O function).
This parameter is constructed
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Changed stat.h to mode.h per Steve Strange.
by logically ORing values described in the \*Lsys/mode.h\*O header file.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The new directory is empty, except for \*L.\*O (dot) and \*L.\|.\*O
(dot-dot).
.LE
.PP
To execute the \*Lmkdir(\|)\*O function, a process must have
search permission to get to the parent directory of the \*Vpath\*O
parameter and
write permission in the parent directory of the \*Vpath \*Oparameter
with respect to all of the system's configured access control
policies.
.PP
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lmkdir(\|)\*O
function marks the
\*Lst_atime\*O,
\*Lst_ctime\*O,
and
\*Lst_mtime\*O
fields of the directory for update, and marks the
\*Lst_ctime\*O
and
\*Lst_mtime\*O
fields of the new directory's parent directory for update.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lmkdir(\|)\*O function returns
a value of 0 (zero). If the \*Lmkdir(\|)\*O function fails, a value of
-1 is returned, and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lmkdir(\|)\*O function fails, the directory is not
created and
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EACCES]"
Creating the requested directory requires writing
in a directory with a mode that denies write permission,
or search permission is denied on the parent directory of the
directory to be created.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EEXIST]"
The named file already exists.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EMLINK]"
The link count of the parent directory would exceed LINK_MAX.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EIO]"
A physical I/O error has occurred.
.LI "[ELOOP]"
Too many links were encountered in translating
\*Vpath\*O.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The owner or group ID is not a value that is
supported by this implementation.
.LI "[ENOMEM]"
Unable to allocate a directory buffer.
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The
\*Vpath\*O
parameter is an invalid address.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]"
The length of the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter exceeds
PATH_MAX
or a pathname component is longer than
NAME_MAX.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOENT]"
A component of the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter does not exist or points to an empty string.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EROFS]"
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOSPC]"
The file system does not contain enough space
to hold the contents of the new directory or to extend the parent
directory of the new directory.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EDQUOT]"
The directory in which the entry for the new link
is being placed cannot be extended because the user's quota of disk
blocks or i-nodes on the file system containing the directory is exhausted.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOTDIR]"
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lchmod\*O(2),
\*Lmknod\*O(2),
\*Lrmdir\*O(2),
\*Lumask\*O(2)
.PP
Commands:
\*Lchmod\*O(1),
\*Lmkdir\*O(1),
\*Lmknod\*O(8)
.iX "mkdir function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
