.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mknod.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 17:33:00 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH mknod 2
.SH NAME
\*Lmknod\*O \- Creates an FIFO or special file
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
.sp .4v
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.nL
\*L#include <sys/stat.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint mknod (
.nL
	const char *\*Vpath\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vmode\*L,
.nL
	dev_t \*Vdevice \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.VL 
.LI "\*Vpath\*O"
Names the new file.
If the final component of the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter names a symbolic link, the link will be traversed and
pathname resolution will continue.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vmode\*O" 
Specifies the file type, attributes, and access
permissions. This parameter is constructed by logically ORing values
described in the \*Lsys/mode.h\*O header file.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vdevice\*O" 
Depends upon the configuration
and is used only if the \*Vmode\*O parameter specifies a block
or character special file.
If the file you specify is a remote
file, the value of the \*Vdevice\*O parameter must be meaningful
on the node where the file resides.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "mknod function"
.iX "file" "creating"
.iX "directory" "creating"
.iX "file" "creating a directory"
.iX "file" "creating a FIFO"
.iX "file" "creating a special file"
.iX "FIFO" "creating"
.iX "special file" "creating"
.PP 
The \*Lmknod(\|)\*O function creates a special
file or FIFO.  Using the \*Lmknod(\|)\*O function to create file types
other than FIFO special requires
superuser
privilege.
.PP 
For the \*Lmknod(\|)\*O function to complete successfully, a
process must have search permission and write permission in the parent
directory of the \*Vpath\*O parameter.
.PP 
The new file has the following characteristics:
.\"from TP 4"  
.ML
.LI
File type as specified by the \*Vmode\*O parameter.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
Owner ID set to the process effective user ID.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
Group ID set to the group ID of its parent directory.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
Permission and attribute bits set according to the value of the \*Vmode\*O
parameter. All bits set in the process file mode creation mask
are cleared.  See the
\*Lumask(\|)\*O
function.
.LE 
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion of the
\*Lmknod(\|)\*O
function
a value of 0 (zero) is returned.  Otherwise,
a value of -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the \*Lmknod(\|)\*O function fails, the new file is not created
and
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EACCES]"
A component of the path prefix denies search permission, or write
permission is denied on the parent directory of the FIFO to be
created.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EPERM]" 
The \*Vmode\*O parameter specifies a file type
other than FIFO and the calling process does not have
the sufficient privilege.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EEXIST]" 
The named file exists.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EIO]"
While accessing the file system, an I/O error occurred.
.LI "[EINVAL]"
An invalid argument has been specified.
.LI "[EROFS]" 
The directory in which the file is to be created
is located on a read-only file system.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOSPC]" 
The directory that would contain the new file
cannot be extended or the file system is out of file allocation resources.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EDQUOT]" 
The directory in which the entry for the new link
is being placed cannot be extended because the user's quota of disk
blocks or inodes on the file system is exhausted.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]" 
The length of the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter exceeds PATH_MAX or a pathname component is longer than
NAME_MAX.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOENT]" 
A component of the path prefix does not exist or the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter points to an empty string.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOTDIR]" 
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lchmod\*O(2),
\*Lmkdir\*O(2),
\*Lopen\*O(2),
\*Lumask\*O(2),
\*Lstat\*O(2)
.PP 
Commands:
\*Lchmod\*O(1),
\*Lmkdir\*O(1)
.iX "mknod function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
