.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: msgctl.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 17:36:16 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH msgctl 2
.SH NAME
\*Lmsgctl\*O \- Performs message control operations
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
.sp .4v
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/types.h\*O>\*L
.sp .4v
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/ipc.h\*O>\*L
.sp .4v
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/msg.h\*O>\*L
.sp .4v
\*Lint msgctl\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lint\*O \*Vmsqid\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lint\*O \*Vcmd\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lstruct msqid_ds\*O \*V*buf\*O) ;\*L
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vmsqid\*O"
Specifies the message queue ID.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vcmd\*O" 
Specifies the type of command.  The possible
commands and the operations they perform are as follows:
.wH .RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.\"from TP .5i"  
.VL
.LI "IPC_STAT" 
Queries the message queue ID by copying the contents of its associated
data structure into the
\*Vbuf\*O
structure.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "IPC_SET" 
Sets the message queue ID by copying values found in the
\*Vbuf\*O
structure into corresponding fields in the
\*Lmsqid_ds\*O
structure associated with the
message queue ID.  This is a restricted operation.  The effective
user ID of the calling process
must be equal to that of superuser or equal
to the value of
\*Vmsg_perm.uid\*O
or
\*Vmsg_perm.cuid\*O
in the associated
\*Lmsqid_ds\*O
structure.  Only superuser can raise the value of \*Vmsg_qbytes\*O.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "IPC_RMID" 
Removes the message queue ID and deallocates its
associated
\*Lmsqid_ds\*O
structure.  This is a restricted operation.  The effective
user ID of the calling process
must be equal to that of superuser
or equal
to the value of
\*Vmsg_perm.uid\*O
or
\*Vmsg_perm.cuid\*O
in the associated
\*Lmsqid_ds\*O
structure.
.wH .RE
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LE
.LI "\*Vbuf\*O" 
Points to a
\*Lmsqid_ds\*O
structure.  This structure is used only with the
IPC_STAT and IPC_SET commands.  With IPC_STAT, the results of the
query are copied to this structure.  With IPC_SET, the values in this
structure are used to set the corresponding fields in the
\*Lmsqid_ds\*O
structure associated with the message queue ID.
In either case, the
calling process must have allocated the structure before
making the call.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "msgctl function"
.iX "message queue" "performing control operations on"
.iX "message queue" "removing"
The
\*Lmsgctl()\*O
function allows a process to query or set the contents of the
\*Lmsqid_ds\*O
structure associated with the specified message queue ID.  It also
allows a process to remove the message queue ID and its associated
\*Lmsqid_ds\*O
structure.  The
\*Vcmd\*O
value determines which operation is performed.
.PP
The IPC_SET command uses the user-supplied contents of the
\*Vbuf\*O
structure to set the following members of the
\*Lmsqid_ds\*O
structure associated with the message queue ID:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "\*Lmsg_perm.uid\*O"
The owner's user ID.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "\*Lmsg_perm.gid\*O" 
The owner's group ID.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "\*Lmsg_perm.mode\*O" 
The access modes for the queue.  Only the low-order nine bits are
set.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "\*Lmsg_qbytes\*O" 
The maximum number of bytes on the queue.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "\*Lmsg_ctime\*O" 
The time of the last
\*Lmsgctl(\|)\*O
operation that changed the structure.
.LE 
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. Otherwise,
a value of -1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
If the
\*Lmsgctl(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The
\*Vmsqid\*O
parameter
is not a valid message queue ID, or the
\*Vcmd\*O
parameter
is not a valid command.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EACCES]" 
The
\*Vcmd\*O
parameter
is IPC_STAT, but the calling process does not have
read permission.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EPERM]"
The \*Vcmd\*O parameter is equal to either IPC_RMID or IPC_SET,
and the calling
process does not have appropriate privilege.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EPERM]" 
The \*Vcmd\*O parameter is equal to IPC_SET, and
an attempt is being made to increase the value of the \*Vmsg_qbytes\*O
parameter when the effective user ID of the calling process does not have
the SET_OBJ_STAT system privilege.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EFAULT]" 
The
\*Vcmd\*O
parameter
is IPC_STAT or IPC_SET.  An error occurred in accessing the
\*Vbuf\*O
structure.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
Functions:
\*Lmsgget\*O(2),
\*Lmsgrcv\*O(2),
\*Lmsgsnd\*O(2)
.PP 
Data Structures:
\*Lmsqid_ds\*O(4)
.iX "msgctl function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
