.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: msgget.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 17:37:33 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH msgget 2
.SH NAME
\*Lmsgget\*O \- Returns (and possibly creates) the ID for a message queue
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/types.h\*O>\*L
.nL
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/ipc.h\*O>\*L
.nL
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/msg.h\*O>\*L
.sp .4v
\*Lint msgget\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lkey_t\*O \*Vkey\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lint\*O \*Vmsgflg\*O);\*L
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "\*Vkey\*O"
Specifies the key that identifies the message queue.  The IPC_PRIVATE key can
be used to assure the return of a new, unused, message queue ID.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vmsgflg\*O" 
Specifies creation flags.  Possible values are:
.wH .RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.\"from TP .5i"  
.VL
.LI "IPC_CREAT" 
If the key does not
exist, the
\*Lmsgget(\|)\*O function
creates a message queue ID using the given key.  If the key
does exist, it forces an error notification.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "IPC_EXCL" 
If the key already exists, the
\*Lmsgget(\|)\*O function
fails and returns an error notification.
.wH .RE
.LE
.\"from TP 1i"  
.PP
The low-order nine bits of
\*Vmsg_perm.mode\*O
are set equal to the low-order
nine bits of
\*Vmsgflg\*O.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "msgget function"
.iX "message queue" "returning the ID for"
.iX "message queue" "creating"
The
\*Lmsgget()\*O
function returns (and possibly creates) the
message queue ID for the message queue
identified by the
\*Vkey\*O parameter.
If IPC_PRIVATE is used for
\*Vkey\*O, the
\*Lmsgget(\|)\*O function
returns the ID for a private (that is, newly created) message
queue.
The \*Vmsgflg\*O parameter
supplies creation options for the
\*Lmsgget(\|)\*O function.
If the
\*Vkey\*O parameter
does not already exist, IPC_CREAT instructs the
\*Lmsgget(\|)\*O function
to create a new message queue for the key and return the kernel-assigned ID
for the message queue.
.PP 
After creating a new message queue ID, the
\*Lmsgget(\|)\*O function
initializes the
\*Lmsqid_ds\*O
structure associated with the ID as follows:
.\"from TP 4"  
.ML
.LI
The \*Vmsg_perm.cuid\*O
and
\*Vmsg_perm.uid\*O
members are set equal to the effective user ID
of the calling process.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The \*Vmsg_perm.cgid\*O
and
\*Vmsg_perm.gid\*O members
are set equal to the
effective group ID of the calling process.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The low-order nine bits of the
\*Vmsg_perm.mode\*O member
are set equal to the low-order nine bits of
\*Vmsgflg\*O.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The \*Vmsg_qnum\*O,
\*Vmsg_lspid\*O,
\*Vmsg_lrpid\*O,
\*Vmsg_stime\*O,
and
\*Vmsg_rtime\*O members
are all set equal to zero.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The \*Vmsg_ctime\*O member
is set equal to the current time.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The \*Vmsg_qbytes\*O
member is set equal to the system limit.
.LE 
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion, a message queue identifier is returned.
If the \*Lmsgget()\*O function fails, a value of -1 is returned
and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If the
\*Lmsgget(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EACCES]"
A message queue identifier exists for the \*Vkey\*O
parameter but operation permission, which is specified by the low-order nine
bits of the \*Vmsgflg\*O parameter, is not granted.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOENT]" 
A message queue identifier does not exist for
the \*Vkey\*O parameter and the IPC_CREAT value is not
set.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOSPC]" 
A message queue identifier can be created, but
the system-imposed limit on the maximum number of allowed message
queue identifiers has been exceeded.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EEXIST]" 
A message queue identifier exists for the \*Vkey\*O parameter,
and both IPC_CREAT and IPC_EXCL are set.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
Functions:
\*Lmsgctl\*O(2),
\*Lmsgrcv\*O(2),
\*Lmsgsnd\*O(2)
.PP 
Data Structures:
\*Lmsqid_ds\*O(4)
.iX "msgget function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
