.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: msgrcv.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 17:38:51 $
.\" 
...\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" 
...\"build rmifdef
...\"
...\"
.TH msgrcv 2
.iX "msgrcv function"
.SH NAME
\*Lmsgrcv\*O -  Receives a message from a message queue
.iX "message queue" "receiving a message from"
.iX "message" "receiving from a message queue"
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/types.h\*O>\*L
.nL
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/ipc.h\*O>\*L
.nL
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/msg.h\*O>\*L
.sp .4v
\*Lint msgrcv\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lint\*O \*Vmsqid\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lstruct msgbuf\*O \*V*msgp\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lint\*O \*Vmsgsz\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Llong\*O \*Vmsgtyp\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lint\*O \*Vmsgflg\*O);\*L
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
...\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "\*Vmsqid\*O"
Specifies the ID of the message queue from which to receive the message.
...\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vmsgp\*O" 
Specifies a pointer to the
\*Lmsgbuf\*O
structure that is to receive the message.  See \*LNOTES\*O.
...\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vmsgsz\*O" 
Specifies the maximum number of bytes allowed for the received data.
...\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vmsgtyp\*O" 
Specifies the message type to read from the queue.
...\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vmsgflg\*O" 
Specifies the action to be taken by the kernel if there are no
\*Vmsgtyp\*O
messages on the queue.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\*Lmsgrcv()\*O
function receives a message from the queue associated with the
\*Vmsqid\*O parameter.
It returns the number of bytes in the received message.
.PP
The
\*Vmsgp\*O
parameter
points to a user-defined
\*Lmsgbuf\*O
structure.  The structure will receive the message read from the
queue.
.PP
The
\*Vmsgsz\*O
parameter
specifies the maximum size allowed for the received data.  If the message is
longer than
\*Vmsgsz\*O,
the kernel will take one of the following actions, depending on whether the
MSG_NOERROR flag is set:
...\"from TP 4"  
.ML
.LI
If MSG_NOERROR is not set, the kernel returns an [E2BIG] error to the calling
process and leaves the message on the queue.
...\"from TP "  
.LI
If MSG_NOERROR is set, the kernel truncates the message to
\*Vmsgsz\*O
and discards the truncated portion without notifying the
calling process.
.LE 
.PP
The
\*Vmsgtyp\*O
parameter
specifies the message type that the process wants to receive.  Possible
values and their results are as follows:
...\"from TP .3i"  
.VL
.LI "0"
The process receives the message at the head of the queue.
...\"from TP "  
.LI ">0" 
The process receives the first message of the requested
positive-integer type.
...\"from TP "  
.LI "<0" 
The process receives the first message of the lowest type on the queue.
To qualify as the lowest type, the negative-integer type must be less than or equal to
the absolute value of
\*Vmsgtyp\*O.
.LE 
.PP
The
\*Vmsgflg\*O
parameter
specifies the action that the kernel should take if the queue does not
contain a message of the requested type.  Either of two kernel actions can be specified, as follows:
...\"from TP 4"  
.ML
.LI
If IPC_NOWAIT is set, the kernel returns immediately with a return
value of -1 and \*Lerrno\*O set to [ENOMSG].
...\"from TP "  
.LI
If IPC_NOWAIT is not set, the kernel suspends the calling process.
.IP
The process remains suspended until one of the following occurs:
.wH .RS  Can not be used in nested lists
...\"from TP .3i"  
.ML
.LI
A message of the requested type
appears on the queue.  In this case, the kernel wakes the
process to receive the message.
...\"from TP "  
.LI
The specified message queue ID is removed from the
system.  In this case, the kernel sets \*Lerrno\*O to
[EIDRM] and returns -1 to the calling process.
...\"from TP "  
.LI
The process catches a signal.  In this case, the process does not
receive the message and, instead, resumes execution as directed by the
\*Lsignal(\|)\*O call.
.wH .RE
.LE
.LE 
.SH NOTES
The user-specified
\*Lmsgbuf\*O
structure, used to store received messages, is defined as follows:
.rS
\*Lstruct msgbuf {
.nL
	mtyp_t \*Vmtype\*L;
.nL
	char \*Vmtext\*L[];
.nL
}\*O
.rE
.PP
The \*Vmytpe\*O field
is set to the message type supplied by the sender.
.PP
The \*Vmtext\*O field
is set to the message text.  Unless MSG_NOERROR is set, the message size will be less than or
equal to the
\*Vmsgsz\*O
specified on the call to
\*Lmsgrcv(\|)\*O.
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lmsgrcv(\|)\*O function
returns a value equal
to the number of bytes actually stored in \*Vmtext\*O.
Also, the kernel updates the
\*Lmsqid_ds\*O
structure associated with the message queue ID as follows:
...\"from TP 4"  
.ML
.LI
Decrements \*Vmsg_qnum\*O
by 1.
...\"from TP "  
.LI
Sets \*Vmsg_lrpid\*O
equal to the process ID of the calling process.
...\"from TP 4"  
.LI
Sets \*Vmsg_rtime\*O
equal to the current time.
...\"from TP "  
.LI
Decrements \*Vmsg_cbytes\*O
by the message text size.
.LE 
.PP
When the
\*Lmsgrcv(\|)\*O
function fails, a value of -1 is returned
and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If the
\*Lmsgrcv(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
...\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The
\*Vmsqid\*O
parameter
is not a valid message queue ID, or the
\*Vmsgsz\*O
parameter
is less than 0 (zero).
...\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EACCES]" 
The calling process does not have permission for the operation.
...\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EIDRM]" 
The
\*Vmsgid\*O
parameter
has been removed from the system.
...\"from TP "  
.LI "[E2BIG]" 
The number of bytes to be received in
\*Vmtext\*O
is greater than
\*Vmsgsz\*O
and the MSG_NOERROR flag is not set.
...\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOMSG]" 
The queue does not contain a message of the requested type and the IPC_NOWAIT
flag is set.
...\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EINTR]" 
The operation was interrupted by a signal.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
Functions:
\*Lmsgctl\*O(2),
\*Lmsgget\*O(2),
\*Lmsgsnd\*O(2),
\*Lsigaction\*O(2)
.PP 
Data Structures:
\*Lmsqid_ds\*O(4)
.iX "msgrcv function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
