.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: msgsnd.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/17 14:59:03 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH msgsnd 2
.SH NAME
\*Lmsgsnd\*O \- Sends a message to a message queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/types.h\*O>\*L
.nL
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/ipc.h\*O>\*L
.nL
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/msg.h\*O>\*L
.sp .4v
\*Lint msgsnd\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lint\*O \*Vmsqid\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst void *\*Vmsgp\*L,
.nL
	\*Lsize_t \*Vmsgsz\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint\*O \*Vmsgflg\*O);\*L
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.VL 1i
.LI "\*Vmsqid\*O"
Specifies the ID of the message queue on which to place the message.  The ID is
typically returned by a previous
\*Lmsgget(\|)\*O
function.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vmsgp\*O"
Specifies a pointer to the
\*Lmsgbuf\*O
structure that contains the message.  See \*LNOTES\*O.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vmsgsz\*O"
Specifies the size of the data array in the
\*Lmsgbuf\*O
structure.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vmsgflg\*O"
Specifies the action to be taken by the kernel if it runs out of
internal buffer space.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "msgsnd function"
.iX "message queue" "sending a message to"
.iX "message" "sending to a message queue"
.PP
The
\*Lmsgsnd()\*O
function sends a message to the queue associated with the
\*Vmsqid\*O parameter.
.PP
The \*Vmsgp\*O parameter
points to a user-defined
\*Lmsgbuf\*O
structure.  The structure identifies the
message type and contains a data array with the message text.
.PP
The size of the data array is specified by the
\*Vmsgsz\*O parameter.
The
\*Vmsgsz\*O
value can be from zero to a system-defined maximum.
.PP
The \*Vmsgflg\*O parameter
specifies the action that the kernel should take if either or both of
the following are true:
.\"from TP 4"  
.ML
.LI
The current number of bytes in the message queue is equal to
\*Vmsg_qbytes\*O
(in the
\*Lmsqid_ds\*O
structure).
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The total number of messages on all message queues is equal to the
system-defined limit.
.LE
.PP
Either of two kernel actions can be specified, as follows:
.\"from TP 4"  
.ML
.LI
If IPC_NOWAIT is set, the kernel does not send the message and returns
to the calling process immediately.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
If IPC_NOWAIT is not set, the kernel suspends the calling process.
The process remains suspended until one of the following occurs:
.wH .RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.\"from TP .3i"  
.ML
.LI
The blocking condition is removed.  In this case, the kernel sends the
message.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The specified message queue ID is removed from the
system.  In this case, the kernel sets \*Lerrno\*O to
[EIDRM] and returns -1 to the calling process.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The process catches a signal.  In this case, the message is not sent
and the process resumes execution as directed by the
\*Lsignal(\|)\*O
function.
.wH .RE
.LE
.LE
.PP
If the
\*Lmsgsnd(\|)\*O function
completes successfully, the kernel updates the
\*Lmsqid_ds\*O
structure associated with the
\*Vmsgid\*O parameter.
Specifically, it:
.\"from TP 4"  
.ML
.LI
Increments
\*Vmsg_qnum\*O
by 1.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
Increments
\*Vmsg_cbytes\*O
by the message text size.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
Sets
\*Vmsg_lspid\*O
equal to the process ID of the calling process.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
Sets
\*Vmsg_stime\*O
equal to the current time.
.LE
.PP
.SH NOTES
.PP
The user-specified
\*Lmsgbuf\*O
structure is defined as follows:
.RS
\*Lstruct msgbuf {
.nL
	mtyp_t \*Vmtype\*L;
.nL
	char \*Vmtext\*L[];
}\*O
.RE
.PP
The \*Vmytpe\*O field
is a user-chosen positive integer.  A receiving process can use the
message type to select only those messages it wants to receive from the
queue.  See the
\*Lmsgrcv(\|)\*O function.
.PP
The \*Vmtext\*O field
is any text of length
\*Vmsgsz\*O.
.PP
When the kernel sends a message, it allocates space for the message
and copies the data from user space.  The kernel then allocates a
\*Lmsg\*O
(message header) structure, sets its fields, and inserts the structure at the tail of the message queue
associated with the message queue ID.  The
\*Lmsg\*O
structure is defined as follows:
.RS
\*Lstruct msg {
.nL
        struct msg     *\*Vmsg_next\*L;
.nL
        long            \*Vmsg_type\*L;
.nL
        long            \*Vmsg_ts\*L;
.nL
        caddr_t         \*Vmsg_addr\*L;
.nL
};\*O
.RE
.PP
The \*Vmsg_next\*O field
is a pointer to the next message in the queue.
The \*Vmsg_type\*O field
is the message type supplied in the user-specified
\*Lmsgbuf\*O
structure.
The \*Vmsg_ts\*O field
is the size of the message text.
The \*Vmsg_addr\*O field
is the address of the message text.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned.  Otherwise, a
value of -1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the
\*Lmsgsnd(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vmsqid\*O parameter
is not a valid message queue ID,
\*Vmtype\*O
is less than 1, or
\*Vmsgsz\*O
is less than 0 (zero) or greater
than the system-defined limit.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EACCES]"
The calling process does not have permission for the operation.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EAGAIN]"
If the maximum number of message headers has been allocated or if the
bytes for the message exceed the maximum number of bytes on the queue,
the message cannot be sent and the IPC_NOWAIT flag is set.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EINTR]"
The operation was interrupted by a signal.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EIDRM]"
The \*Vmsqid\*O parameter
has been removed from the system.
.LI "[ENOSYS]"
The requested operation is not supported by this implementation.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lmsgctl\*O(2),
\*Lmsgget\*O(2),
\*Lmsgrcv\*O(2),
\*Lsigaction\*O(2)
.PP
Data Structures:
\*Lmsqid_ds\*O(4)
.iX "msgsnd function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
