.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: msync.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/02/04 15:29:24 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH msync 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lmsync\*O \- Synchronizes a mapped file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.sp \&.4v
\*L#include <sys/mman.h>
.sp \&.4v
\*Lint msync (
.nL
	\*Lcaddr_t \*Vaddr\*L,
.nL
	\*Lsize_t \*Vlen\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vflags \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*Vaddr\*O"
Specifies the address of the region to be synchronized.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vlen\*O"
Specifies the length in bytes of the region to be synchronized.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vflags\*O"
Specifies one of
the following symbolic
constants defined
in the
\*Lsys/mman.h\*O
file:
.wH \&.RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.\"from TP .5i"  
.VL
.LI "MS_SYNC"
Synchronous cache flush
.\"from TP "  
.LI "MS_ASYNC"
Asynchronous cache flush
.\"from TP "  
.LI "MS_INVALIDATE"
Invalidate cached pages
.wH \&.RE
.LE
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "msync function"
.iX "mapped file" "synchronizing"
.iX "mapped file" "writing changes to disk"
The \*Lmsync(\|)\*O function
controls the caching operations of a mapped file region.  The
\*Lmsync(\|)\*O
function can be used to ensure that modified pages in the region
are transferred to
the file's underlying storage device, or to control the
visibility of modifications with respect to file system operations.
.PP
The \*Vaddr\*O and \*Vlen\*O parameters specify the region to be
synchronized.
The
\*Vlen\*O
parameter must be a multiple of the page size as returned by
\*Lsysconf(_SC_PAGE_SIZE)\*O.
If
\*Vlen\*O
is not a multiple of the page size as returned by
\*Lsysconf(_SC_PAGE_SIZE)\*O,
the length of the region will be rounded up to the next multiple of
the page size.
.PP
If the \*Vflags\*O parameter is set to MS_SYNC,
the \*Lmsync(\|)\*O function does not return until the system completes
all I/O operations.
If the \*Vflags\*O parameter is set to MS_ASYNC,
the \*Lmsync(\|)\*O function returns after the system schedules all
I/O operations.
If the \*Vflags\*O parameter is set to MS_INVALIDATE, the
\*Lmsync(\|)\*O function invalidates all cached copies of the pages.
New copies of the pages then must be obtained from the file system the
next time
they are referenced.
.PP
After a successful call to the
\*Lmsync(\|)\*O
function with the
\*Vflags\*O
parameter set to MS_SYNC,
all previous modifications to the mapped region
are visible to processes using the
\*Lread(\|)\*O
parameter.
Previous modifications to the file using the
\*Lwrite(\|)\*O
function may be lost.
.PP
After a successful call to the
\*Lmsync(\|)\*O
function with the
\*Vflags\*O
parameter set to MS_INVALIDATE,
all previous modifications to the file using the
\*Lwrite(\)\*O
function
are visible to the mapped region.
Previous direct modifications to the mapped region may be lost.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Trial use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion,
the \*Lmsync(\|)\*O function returns 0 (zero).  Otherwise, the
\*Lmsync(\|)\*O function returns -1 and sets \*Lerrno\*O to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lmsync(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.PP
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EIO]"
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the
file system.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[ENOMEM]"
The range specified by [\*Vaddr\*O, \*Vaddr\*O + \*Vlen\*O)
is invalid for a process' address space,
or the range specifies  one or more unmapped pages.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vaddr\*O parameter is not a multiple of the page size as returned by
\*Lsysconf(_SC_PAGE_SIZE)\*O.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - Not supported (Bob Mcguirk)
.\" or the
.\" \*Vflags\*O
.\" parameter
.\" is MS_SYNC or MS_ASYNC and the region was mapped with MAP_PRIVATE.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The range [\*Vaddr\*O, \*Vaddr\*O + \*Vlen\*O) includes an invalid
address.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lfsync\*O(2),
\*Lmmap\*O(2),
\*Lread\*O(2),
\*Lsysconf\*O(3),
\*Lwrite\*O(2)
.iX "msync function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
