.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: munmap.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 09:09:04 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH munmap 2
.SH NAME
\*Lmunmap\*O \- Unmaps a mapped region
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.sp .4v
\*L#include <sys/mman.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint munmap (
.nL
	\*Lcaddr_t \*Vaddr\*L,
.nL
	\*Lsize_t \*Vlen \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vaddr\*O"
Specifies the address of the region to be unmapped.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vlen\*O" 
Specifies the length in bytes of the region to be unmapped.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "munmap function"
.iX "mapped file" "unmapping"
.iX "shared memory region" "unmapping"
.PP 
The
\*Lmunmap(\|)\*O
function unmaps a mapped file or shared memory region.
.PP 
The
\*Vaddr\*O
and
\*Vlen\*O
parameters specify the address and length in bytes, respectively, of
the region to be unmapped.
The
\*Vlen\*O
parameter must be a multiple of the page size as returned by
\*Lsysconf(_SC_PAGE_SIZE)\*O.
If
\*Vlen\*O
is not a multiple of the page size as returned by
\*Lsysconf(_SC_PAGE_SIZE)\*O,
the length of the region will be rounded up to the next multiple of
the page size.
.PP 
The result of using an address which lies in an unmapped region and
not in any subsequently mapped region is undefined.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Trial use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lmunmap(\|)\*O function returns 0 (zero).  Otherwise,
\*Lmunmap(\|)\*O returns -1 and sets \*Lerrno\*O to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the \*Lmunmap(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.PP 
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vaddr\*O parameter is not a multiple of the page size as returned by
\*Lsysconf(_SC_PAGE_SIZE)\*O.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EFAULT]" 
The range [\*Vaddr\*O, \*Vaddr\*O + \*Vlen\*O) includes an invalid
address.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lmmap\*O(2),
\*Lsysconf\*O(3)
.iX "munmap function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
