.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mvalid.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 09:09:19 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH mvalid 2
.SH NAME
\*Lmvalid\*O \- Checks memory region for validity
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*L#include <sys/mman.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint mvalid (\*O
.nL
	\*Lcaddr_t \*Vaddr\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lsize_t \*Vlen\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vprot\*O  \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vaddr\*O"
Specifies the address of the region whose validity is to be
checked.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vlen\*O" 
Specifies length in bytes of the
region specified by the
\*Vaddr\*O
parameter.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vprot\*O" 
Specifies the desired access protection for the region.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "mvalid function"
.iX "memory region" "checking validity of"
.PP 
The \*Lmvalid(\|)\*O function checks the validity of a memory region.
A region is considered to be valid if accesses of the requested type
are allowed to all addresses in the region.
.PP 
The \*Lsys/mman.h\*O header file defines the following access
options:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "PROT_READ"
The mapped region can be read.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "PROT_WRITE" 
The mapped region can be written.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "PROT_EXEC" 
The mapped region can be executed.
.LE 
.PP 
The \*Vprot\*O parameter can be any combination of
PROT_READ, PROT_WRITE, and PROT_EXEC ORed together.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
The \*Lmvalid(\|)\*O function returns 0 (zero) if accesses requiring the
specified protection are allowed to all addresses within the specified
range of addresses.  Otherwise, the
\*Lmvalid(\|)\*O function returns -1 and sets \*Lerrno\*O to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the \*Lmvalid(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EACCES]"
The range specified by [\*Vaddr\*O, \*Vaddr\*O + \*Vlen\*O)
is invalid for the process' address space,
or the range specifies one or more unmapped pages, or one or more
pages of the range disallows accesses of the specified protection.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EINVAL]" 
The \*Vprot\*O parameter is invalid, or the \*Vaddr\*O parameter is not
a multiple of the page size as returned by \*Lsysconf(_SC_PAGE_SIZE)\*O.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lmmap\*O(2),
\*Lmprotect\*O(2),
\*Lsysconf\*O(3)
.iX "mvalid function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
