.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: nfssvc.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 09:09:34 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1989 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)nfssvc.2	6.4 (Berkeley) 6/23/90
.\" 
.TH nfssvc 2
.SH NAME
\*Lnfssvc\*O \- Creates a remote NFS server
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lnfssvc(
.nL
	int \*Vsock\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vmask\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vmatch \*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vsock\*O"
Specifies the socket.  The
\*Vsock\*O
parameter
must be in the
AF_INET
family and of type
SOCK_DGRAM.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vmask\*O" 
Specifies a mask to be supplied to the client host address.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vmatch\*O"
Specifies a value to be compared against the value of the client host address
ANDED with the value in the
\*Vmask\*O
parameter.
If the values are equal, the daemon is started;  otherwise,
the request is dropped by the server.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "nfssvc function"
.iX "NFS" "creating a remote server"
.iX "remote server" "creating in NFS"
The
\*Lnfssvc(\|)\*O
function
starts an
NFS
daemon listening on a specified socket.
.SH RETURN VALUES
Normally this function does not return unless the server
is terminated by a signal, at which time a value of 0 (zero) is returned.
Otherwise, \-1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If the
\*Lnfssvc(\|)\*O
function
fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EBADF]"
An invalid file descriptor has been passed to the
\*Lnfssvc(\|)\*O
function.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EPERM]" 
The caller is not the superuser.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lasync_daemon\*O(2)
.iX "nfssvc function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
