.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: open.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.8.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 21:27:23 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH open 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lopen\*O, \*Lcreat\*O \- Opens a file for reading or writing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.sp 0.4v
\*L#include <fcntl.h>
.nL
\*L#include <sys/stat.h>
.nL
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint open (
.nL
	\*Lconst char *\*Vpath\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Voflag\*O [ \*L,
.nL
	\*Lmode_t \*Vmode\*O ] \*L);
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint creat (
.nL
	\*Lconst char *\*Vpath\*L,
.nL
	\*Lmode_t \*Vmode \*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vpath\*O"
Specifies the file to be opened or created.
If the
\*Vpath\*O parameter refers to a symbolic link, the
\*Lopen\*O(\|) function opens the file
pointed to by the symbolic link.
.LI "\*Voflag\*O"
Specifies the type of access, special open
processing, the type of update, and the initial state of the open
file. The parameter value is constructed by logically ORing special
open processing flags.  These flags are defined in the \*Lfcntl.h\*O
header file and are described below.
.LI "\*Vmode\*O"
Specifies the read, write, and execute permissions
of the file to be created (requested by the O_CREAT flag in the
\*Lopen\*O(\|)
interface).
If the file already exists, this parameter is ignored. This parameter
is constructed by logically ORing values described in
the \*Lsys/mode.h\*O header file.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "open function"
.iX "creat function"
.iX "file" "opening for reading or writing"
.iX "file" "creating"
.iX "file" "access flags"
.iX "file" "status flags"
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
The function call:
.nL
      \*Lcreat\*O (\*Vpath\*L, \*Vmode\*O)\*L;\*O
.nL
is equivalent to:
.nL
      \*Lopen\*O (\*Vpath\*L, O_WRONLY \*O| \*LO_CREAT \*O| \*LO_TRUNC, \*Vmode\*O)
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP
The \*Lopen\*O(\|) and \*Lcreat\*O(\|) functions
establish a connection between the file named by the \*Vpath\*O
parameter and a file descriptor. The opened file descriptor is used
by subsequent I/O functions, such as\*L read\*O(\|) and\*L write\*O(\|),
to access that file.
.PP
The returned file descriptor is the lowest file descriptor
not previously open for that process. No process can have more than OPEN_MAX
file descriptors open simultaneously.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note information
On
DEC OSF/1
systems, the fixed limit on the number of
file descriptors that a process can have open simultaneously is configurable.
The minimum value is 64.  Use \*Lgetdtablesize\*O(2) to find this
system-defined limit.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP
The
\*Lopen\*O(\|)
and
\*Lcreat\*O(\|)
functions, which suspend the calling process until the request is
completed, are redefined so that only the calling thread is
suspended.
.PP
The file offset, marking the current position within the file,
is set to the beginning of the file.  The new file descriptor is set
to remain open across \*Lexec\*O functions.  (See the
\*Lfcntl\*O(\|)
function.)
.PP
The file status flags and file access flags are designated by the
\*Voflag\*O
parameter.
The
\*Voflag\*O
parameter is constructed by bitwise-inclusive ORing exactly one of the
file access flags (O_RDONLY, O_WRONLY, or O_RDWR)
with one or more of the file status flags.
.SS "File Access Flags"
The file access flags are as follows:
.VL 1i
.LI "O_RDONLY"
The file is open for reading only.
.LI "O_WRONLY"
The file is open for writing only.
.LI "O_RDWR"
The file is open for reading and writing.
.LE
.PP
Exactly one of the file access values (O_RDONLY, O_WRONLY, or O_RDWR)
must be
specified.
If none is set, O_RDONLY is assumed.
.SS "File Status Flags"
File status flags that specify special open processing are as follows:
.VL 1i
.LI "O_CREAT"
If the file exists, this flag has no effect
except as noted under
O_EXCL. If the file
does not exist, a regular file is created with the following characteristics:
.wH 0.RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.RS
.ML
.LI
The owner ID of the file is set to the effective user ID of the
process.
.LI
The group ID of the file is set to the group ID of its parent
directory.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
However, when the \*Lsys_v_mode\*O tunable is
set to 1, the group ID of the file is set to the group ID of the
process.
With exception, if the S_ISGID bit of the parent directory is set,
the group ID of the file is set to the group ID of the parent directory.
.sp
If the group ID of the new file does not match the effective group of
the process or one of the supplementary group IDs of the process, the
S_ISGID bit of the new file is cleared.
.sp
The access permission bits of the file mode are set to the value of mode
as follows:  The corresponding bits are AND-ed with the complement of
the file mode creation mask of the process.
Refer to the
\*ESystem V Compatibility User's Guide\*O
for information on the System V habitat.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI
The file permission and attribute bits are set to the value of
the \*Vmode\*O parameter, modified as follows:
.wH 0.RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.VL 0.5i
.LI
\- All bits set in the process file mode creation mask are cleared.
.LI
\- The set-user ID attribute (S_ISUID bit) is cleared.
.LI
\- The set-group ID attribute (S_ISGID bit) is cleared.
.LI
\- The S_ISVTX attribute bit is cleared.
.wH 0.RE
.LE
.RE
.LE
.sp 4p
The calling process must have write permission to the file's parent
directory with respect to all access control policies to create a new
file.
.wH 0.RE
.LI "O_EXCL"
If O_EXCL and O_CREAT are set,
the open fails if the file exists.
.LI "O_NOCTTY"
If the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter
identifies a terminal device, this flag assures that the terminal
device does not become the controlling terminal for the process.
.sp
System V Compatibility
.sp 4p
In the
DEC OSF/1
operating system, O_NOCTTY is set by default and cannot
be unset.  In the System V habitat, however, O_NOCTTY is not set by default,
which means that a terminal device can become the controlling terminal
for the process if both of the following conditions are met:
.ML
.LI
The process does not already have a controlling terminal
.LI
The terminal device pointed to by \*Vpath\*O is not already a
controlling terminal
.LE
.LI "O_TRUNC"
If the file does not exist, this flag has no
effect. If the file exists and is a regular file, and if the file
is successfully opened O_RDWR or O_WRONLY:
.wH 0.RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.RS
.ML
.LI
The length of the file is truncated to 0 (zero).
.LI
The owner and group of the file are unchanged.
.LI
The set-user ID attribute of the file mode is cleared.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
However, when the \*Lsys_v_mode\*O tunable
is set to 1, the file exists and is a regular file.  Its length is
truncated to 0 and the mode, owner, and group remain unchanged.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI
The set-user ID attribute of the file is cleared.
.LE
.sp
The open fails if either of the following conditions are true:
.ML
.LI
The file supports enforced record locks and another process has
locked a portion of the file.
.LI
The file does not allow write access.
.LE
.RE
.sp
If the \*Voflag\*O parameter also specifies O_SYNC,
the truncation is a synchronous update.
.sp
A program can request some control over when updates should be
made permanent for a regular file opened for write access.
.LE
.PP
File status flags that
define the initial state
of the open file are as follows:
.VL
.LI "O_SYNC"
If set,
updates and writes to regular files and
block devices are synchronous updates.
File update is performed
by:
.wH 0.RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.RS
.ML
.LI
\*Lfclear\*O(\|)
.LI
\*Lftruncate\*O(\|)
.LI
\*Lopen\*O(\|) with O_TRUNC
.LI
\*Lwrite\*O(\|)
.LE
.RE
.sp 4p
On return from a function that performs a synchronous update
(any of the above system calls, when O_SYNC is set), the
calling process is assured that all data for the file has been written to
permanent storage, even if the file is also open for deferred
update.
.LI "O_APPEND"
If set, the file pointer is set to the end of
the file prior to each write.
.LI "O_NONBLOCK, O_NDELAY"
If set, the call to
\*Lopen\*O(\|)
will not block, and subsequent
\*Lread\*O(\|)
or
\*Lwrite\*O(\|)
operations on the file will be nonblocking.
.LE
.SS "General Notes on oflag Parameter Flag Values"
The effect of O_CREAT is immediate.
.PP
When opening a FIFO with O_RDONLY:
.ML
.LI
If neither O_NDELAY nor O_NONBLOCK is set, the \*Lopen\*O(\|) function
blocks until another process opens the file for writing. If the file is
already open for writing (even by the calling process), the \*Lopen\*O(\|)
function returns without delay.
.LI
If O_NDELAY or O_NONBLOCK is set, the \*Lopen\*O(\|) function
returns immediately.
.LE
.PP
When opening a FIFO with O_WRONLY:
.ML
.LI
If neither O_NDELAY nor O_NONBLOCK is set,
the \*Lopen\*O(\|) function
blocks until another process opens the file for reading.
If the file is already open for
reading (even by the calling process), the \*Lopen\*O(\|) function returns
without delay.
.LI
If O_NDELAY or O_NONBLOCK is set, the \*Lopen\*O(\|)
function returns an error if no process currently has the file
open for reading.
.LE
.PP
When opening a block special or character special file that supports
nonblocking opens, such as a terminal device:
.ML
.LI
If neither O_NDELAY nor O_NONBLOCK is set, the
\*Lopen\*O(\|)
function blocks until the device is ready or available.
.LI
If O_NDELAY or O_NONBLOCK is set, the \*Lopen\*O(\|)
function returns without waiting for the device to be ready or
available. Subsequent behavior of the device is device-specific.
.LE
.PP
When opening a STREAMS file,
\*Loflag\*O
may be constructed from O_NDELAY or O_NONBLOCK or-ed with either
O_RDONLY,
O_WRONLY or O_RDWR.
Other flag values are not applicable to STREAMS devices and have no
effect
on them.
The value of O_NDELAY or NON_BLOCK affects the operation of STREAMS
drivers and certain
system calls [see
\*Lread(\|)\*O,
\*Lgetmsg(\|)\*O,
\*Lputmsg(\|)\*O
and
\*Lwrite(\|)\*O].
For drivers, the implementation of O_NDELAY or NON_BLOCK is
device-specific.
Each STREAMS device driver may treat this option differently.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Since a file newly created by \*Lcreat \*O() is write_only, an \*Lfdopen\*O
function following a \*Lcreat\*O fails when using the \*Lr+\*O parameter.  A
solution to this problem is to create the file using
\*Lopen\*O (\*Vpath\*L, O_RDWR \*O| \*LO_CREAT, 0666\*O).
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lopen\*O(\|)
and
\*Lcreat\*O(\|)
functions return
the file descriptor, a nonnegative
integer.  Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lopen\*O(\|) or \*Lcreat\*O(\|) function
fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.VL 1i
.LI "[ENXIO]"
A STREAMS module or driver open routine failed.
.LI "[EIO]"
A hangup or error occurred during a STREAMS
\*Lopen(\|)\*O.
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The owner or group ID is not a value supported
by this implementation.
.LI "[EMULTIHOP]"
Components of \*Lpath\*O require hopping to multiple
remote machines.
.LI "[ENOLINK]"
\*LPath\*O points to a remote machine, and the link to that
machine is no longer active.
.LI "[ENOSR]"
Unable to allocate a \*Lstream\*O.
.LI "[EACCES]"
Search permission is denied on a component of the path prefix, or the
type of access specified by the \*Voflag\*O
parameter is denied for the named file, or the file does not exist and
write permission is denied for the parent directory, or O_TRUNC is
specified and write permission is denied.
.LI "[EAGAIN]"
The O_TRUNC flag is set, the named file exists with enforced record
locking enabled, and there are
record locks on the file.
.LI "[EDQUOT]"
The directory in which the entry for the new link
is being placed cannot be extended because the quota of disk blocks
or i-nodes defined for the user on the file system containing the
directory has been exhausted.
.LI "[EEXIST]"
The O_CREAT and O_EXCL flags are set
and the named file exists.
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The
\*Vpath\*O
parameter is an invalid address.
.LI "[EINTR]"
A signal was caught during the \*Lopen\*O(\|) function.
.LI "[EISDIR]"
The named file is a directory and write access is
requested.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
However, in a System V habitat,
the named file is a directory and the \*Voflag\*O
permission is write or read/write.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "[ELOOP]"
Too many links were encountered in translating
\*Vpath\*O.
.LI "[EMFILE]"
The system limit for open file descriptors per
process has already reached OPEN_MAX.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note information.
The system limit for open file descriptors has already
been reached.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]"
The length of the
\*Vpath\*O
string exceeds PATH_MAX, or a pathname component is longer than
NAME_MAX.
.LI "[ENFILE]"
The system file table is full.
.LI "[ENOENT]"
The O_CREAT flag is not set and the named file
does not exist, or
O_CREAT is set and the path prefix does not exist, or the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter
points to the empty string.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note information.
.LI "[ENOMEM]"
The system was unable to allocate kernel memory for more
file descriptors.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "[ENOSPC]"
The directory that would contain the new file cannot
be extended, the file does not exist, and O_CREAT is requested.
.LI "[ENOTDIR]"
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.LI "[ENXIO]"
The named file is a character special or block special
file, and the device associated with this special file does not exist.
.sp 4p
The named file is a multiplexed special file and either
the channel number is outside of the valid range or no more channels
are available.
.sp 4p
The O_NONBLOCK flag is set,
the named file is a FIFO, O_WRONLY is set, and no process
has the file open for reading.
.LI "[EOPNOTSUPP]"
The named file is a socket bound to the file system (a UNIX domain
socket) and cannot be opened.
.LI "[EROFS]"
The named file resides on a read-only file system
and write access is required.
.\" Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Commenting out ETXTBSY per Bob Picco.  It's not supported.
.\" .LI "[ETXTBSY]"
.\" The file is being executed and
.\" \*Voflag\*O
.\" is O_WRONLY or O_RDWR.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lchmod\*O(2),
\*Lclose\*O(2),
\*Lfcntl\*O(2),
\*Lgetmsg\*O(2),
\*Llseek\*O(2),
\*Lputmsg\*O(2)
\*Lread\*O(2),
\*Lstat\*O(2),
\*Ltruncate\*O(2),
\*Lumask\*O(2),
\*Lwrite\*O(2),
\*Llockf\*O(3)
.iX "open function"
.iX "creat function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
