.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pipe.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/08 15:58:28 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
.\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail 
.\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH pipe 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lpipe\*O \-  Creates an interprocess channel
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lint pipe (
.nL
	int \*Vfiledes\*L[2] );
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*Vfiledes\*O"
Specifies the address of an array of
two integers into which the new file descriptors are placed.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "pipe function"
.iX "pipe" "creating"
.iX "file" "creating a pipe"
.PP
The \*Lpipe(\|)\*O function creates a unidirectional interprocess channel 
called a pipe, and returns two
file descriptors, \*Vfiledes\*O[0]
and\*V filedes\*O[1]. The file descriptor specified by the
\*Vfiledes\*O[0] parameter is opened
for reading and the file descriptor specified by the \*Vfiledes\*O[1]
parameter is opened for writing.  Their integer values will be the two
lowest available at the time
of the call to the
\*Lpipe(\|)\*O
function.  
.PP
A process has the pipe open for reading if it has a file descriptor
open that refers to the read end, \*Vfiledes\*O[0].  A process has the
pipe open for writing if it has a file descriptor open that refers to
the write end, \*Vfiledes\*O[1].
A read on file descriptor \*Vfiledes\*O[0] accesses
the data written to \*Vfiledes\*O[1] on a first-in, first-out
(FIFO) basis.
.PP
System V Compatibility [Digital Only]
.PP
The \*Lpipe\*O(\|) function creates an interprocess channel called a
pipe and returns two file descriptors, \*Lfiledes\*O[0] and
\*Lfiledes\*O[1].  Both file descriptors are STREAMS based and
are bidirectional.  Data written on \*Lfiledes\*O[0] appears on
\*Lfiledes\*O[2] and vice versa.  Data is read in a first-in, first-out
(FIFO) basis.
.PP
Under both behaviors, the O_NONBLOCK 
and the FD_CLOEXC flags are set clear on both file descriptors.
(The
\*Lfcntl(\|)\*O
function can be used to set the O_NONBLOCK flag.)
.PP
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lpipe(\|)\*O
function marks the
\*Lst_atime\*O,
\*Lst_ctime\*O
and
\*Lst_mtime\*O
fields of the pipe for update.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. If the
\*Lpipe(\|)\*O function fails, a value of -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lpipe(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The
\*Vfiledes\*O
parameter is an invalid address.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EMFILE]"
More than OPEN_MAX-2 file
descriptors are already opened by this process.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding information from the Environment Notes.
[Digital only] More than \*Lgetdtablesize\*O(2) file descriptors are
already opened by this process.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENFILE]"
The system file table is full, or the device
containing pipes has no free i-nodes.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding information from the Environment Notes.
.LI "[ENOMEM]"
[Digital only] The system was unable to allocate kernel memory for
more file descriptors.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lsh\*O(1)
.PP
Functions:
\*Lfcntl\*O(2),
\*Lgetmsg\*O(2),
\*Lpoll\*O(2),
\*Lputmsg\*O(2),
\*Lread\*O(2),
\*Lselect\*O(2),
\*Lwrite\*O(2),
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding information from the Environment Notes and a comma to previous line.
\*Lgetdtablesize\*O(2)
.\" End Digital-specific information
.iX "pipe function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
