.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: priocntlset.2,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/08 15:40:27 $
.\"
.TH priocntlset 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lpriocntlset\*O \- change scheduling property of a process or set of processes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>\*O
.nL
\*L#include <sys/procset.h>\*O
.nL
\*L#include <sys/priocntl.h>\*O
.nL
\*L#include <sys/rtpriocntl.h>\*O
.nL
\*L#include <sys/tspriocntl.h>\*O
.PP
\*Ldatatype priocntlset (
.nL
        proceset_t \*V*psp\*L,
.nL
        int \*Vcmd\*L,
.nL
             .
.nL
             .
.nL
             .
.nL
       \*V/*arg*/\*L );\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Varg\*O"
Specifies a pointer to a structure.  The type of structure depends on
the value you select for the \*Vcmd\*O parameter.
.LI "\*Vcmd\*O"
Specifies the functions to be performed.
.LI "\*Vpsp\*O"
Specifies a pointer to a \*Lprocset\*O structure.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "priocntlset function"
This function is used to change the scheduling properties of a
running process or group of processes.  While the \*Lpriocntl\*O(2)
function performs the same tasks, this function enables you to
specify the process or set of processes that will change in a
less complicated manner.
.PP
How the process changes depends on the value you select for the
\*Vcmd\*O parameter.  The value of the \*Varg\*O parameter is
dependent on the value you select for the \*Vcmd\*O parameter.
See the \*Lpriocntl\*O function for detailed information on these
parameters.
.PP
The \*Vpsp\*O parameter enables you to identify the process or
set of processes that is to be affected by this call.  This
parameter points to a \*Lprocset.h\*O structure which defines
the selection process.
In the \*L<sys/procset.h>\*O, a \*Lsetprocset\*O macro is defined that
displays a means of initializing the \*Lprocset\*O structure.
For more information on this structure, see the \*Lprocset\*O(4)
reference page.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
This system call returns the same values as the \*Lpriocntl\*O
function.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This system call returns the same errors as \*Lpriocntl\*O
function.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lpriocntl\*O(2).
.PP
Files: \*Lprocset.h\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
