.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: profil.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/07 16:28:45 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH profil 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lprofil\*O \- Starts and stops execution profiling
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.nL
.sp
\*Lvoid profil(
.nL
	short *\*Vshort_buffer\*L,
.nL
	unsigned int \*Vbuffer_size\*L,
.nL
	void  *\*Voffset\*L,
.nL
	unsigned int \*Vscale \*L);
.nL
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vshort_buffer\*O"
Points to an area of memory in the user address
space. Its length (in bytes) is given by the \*Vbuffer_size\*O parameter.
.LI "\*Vbuffer_size\*O"
Specifies the length (in bytes) of the buffer.
.LI "\*Voffset\*O"
Specifies the delta of program counter start and
buffer; for example, an \*Voffset\*O of 0 (zero)
implies that text begins at 0.
.LI "\*Vscale\*O"
Specifies the mapping factor between the program
counter and \*Vshort_buffer\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "profil function"
.iX "profiling" "starting and stopping"
.iX "execution" "starting and stopping profiling"
The
\*Lprofil(\|)\*O
function controls execution profiling.
.PP
The \*Vshort_buffer\*O parameter points to an area of memory
whose length (in bytes) is given by the
\*Vbuffer_size\*O parameter.
After this call, the process' program counters are examined
at regular intervals (1 ms. in most implementations).
.\" commented out as per qar 14291 (10 ms. in most implementations).
To determine the interval for your system, use the
\*Lgetsysinfo\*O(2)
system call with \*LGSI_CLK_TCK\*O as the operation parameter. The value of the
\*Voffset\*O parameter is subtracted from the program counter, and the
result multiplied by the \*Vscale\*O parameter.
The corresponding location in the \*Vshort_buffer\*O parameter is
incremented if the resulting number is less than the
\*Vbuffer_size\*O parameter.
.PP
The \*Vscale\*O parameter is interpreted as an unsigned,
fixed point fraction with 16
bits of mantissa:  0x10000 gives a 1-1 mapping of program counter
values to words in the \*Vshort_buffer\*O parameter;
0x8000 maps each pair of program counter
values together.  The special scale factor of 2 maps all
instructions onto the beginning of the \*Vshort_buffer\*O
(producing a non-interrupting clock).
.PP
Profiling is turned off by giving a \*Vscale\*O parameter of either
zero (0) or 1.  Profiling is turned off when an \*Lexecve(\|)\*O
is executed.  Profiling remains on in both the parent and child
processes after a fork.  Profiling is turned off if an update in the
\*Vshort_buffer\*O parameter would cause a memory fault.
.PP
If the process contains multiple kernel threads, each will be
independently sampled and the counts will reflect the sum of the
samples for all of the threads.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lexec\*O(2),
\*Lfork\*O(2),
\*Lgetsysinfo\*O(2)
.PP
Commands: \*Lprof\*O(1)
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Commented out gprof(1) because there is no such manpage.
.\" , \*Lgprof\*O(1)
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.iX "profil function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
