.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: quotactl.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/29 20:11:57 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.\"build rmifdef tbl
.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Robert Elz at The University of Melbourne.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)quotactl.2	6.11 (Berkeley) 6/23/90
.\" 
.TH quotactl 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lquotactl\*O \- Manipulates disk quotas
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <ufs/quota.h> 	/* for ``ufs'' quotas */\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lquotactl(
.nL
	char *\*Vpath\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vcmd\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vid\*L,
.nL
	char *\*Vaddr\*L );
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*Vpath\*O"
Specifies
the pathname of any file within the mounted file system.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vcmd\*O"
Specifies a command for interpreting the
\*Vid\*O
parameter.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vid\*O"
Specifies the user or group identifier.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vaddr\*O"
Specifies the address of an optional, command-specific data structure
that is copied in or out of the system.  The interpretation of the
\*Vaddr\*O
parameter is given with each command.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "quotactl function"
.iX "disk quotas" "manipulating"
.iX "file system" "manipulating disk quotas"
The
\*Lquotactl(\|)\*O
function is used to enable and disable quotas and
to manipulate disk quotas for file systems on
which quotas have been enabled.
.PP
Currently quotas are supported only for the UFS file system.
For UFS,
a command is composed of a primary command (see below)
and a command type that is used to interpret the
\*Vid\*O
parameter.  Types are supported for interpretation of user identifiers (type
USRQUOTA) and group identifiers (type GRPQUOTA).  The \*Lcmd\*O argument is
composed from a type and a specific command with the QCMD macro.  For
example, to get the quota limits and usage for a group, the \*Lcmd\*O
argument would be formed by:
.sp
        cmd=QCMD(Q_GETQUOTA, GRPQUOTA);
.sp
.PP
Note that block sizes are in DEV_BSIZE (that is, 512) byte blocks.
.PP
The UFS specific commands are:
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "Q_QUOTAON"
Enable disk quotas for the file system specified by the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter.
The command type specifies the type of the quotas being enabled.
The
\*Vaddr\*O
parameter specifies a file from which to take the quotas.
The quota file must exist;
it is normally created with the
\*Lquotacheck\*O
program.
The
\*Vid\*O
parameter is unused.
Only users with
superuser
privilege can turn quotas on.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "Q_QUOTAOFF"
Disable disk quotas for the file system specified by the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter.
The command type specifies the type of the quotas being disabled.
The
\*Vaddr\*O
and
\*Vid\*O
parameters are unused.
Only users with
superuser
privilege can turn quotas off.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "Q_GETQUOTA"
Get disk quota limits and current usage for the user or group
(as determined by the command type) with identifier
\*Vid\*O.
The
\*Vaddr\*O
parameter
points to a
\*Lstruct dqblk\*O
structure, defined in the
\*Lufs/quota.h\*O
header file.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "Q_SETQUOTA"
Set disk quota limits for the user or group
(as determined by the command type) with identifier
\*Vid\*O.
The
\*Vaddr\*O
parameter
points to a
\*Lstruct dqblk\*O
structure, defined in the
\*Lufs/quota.h\*O
header file.
The usage fields of the \*Ldqblk\*O structure are ignored.
This function is restricted to processes with
superuser
privilege.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "Q_SETUSE"
Set disk usage limits for the user or group
(as determined by the command type) with identifier
\*Vid\*O.
The
\*Vaddr\*O
parameter
points to a
\*Lstruct dqblk\*O
structure, defined in the
\*Lufs/quota.h\*O
header file.
Only the usage fields are used.
This function is restricted to processes with
superuser
privilege.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "Q_SYNC"
Update the on-disk copy of quota usages.
The command type specifies which type of quotas are to be updated.
The \*Vid\*O and \*Vaddr\*O parameters are ignored.
.LE
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.PP
Upon successful completion, 0 (zero) is returned.
Otherwise, \-1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lquotactl(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EOPNOTSUPP]"
The kernel has not been compiled with the QUOTA option.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EUSERS]"
The quota table cannot be expanded.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The
\*Vcmd\*O
parameter
or the command type is invalid.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EINVAL]"
A pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EACCES]"
In Q_QUOTAON, the quota file is not a plain file.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EACCES]"
Search permission is denied for a component of a path prefix.
.\" .sp
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOTDIR]"
A component of a path prefix is not a directory.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]"
A component of the pathname exceeded NAME_MAX,
or the entire length of the pathname exceeded PATH_MAX.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOENT]"
A filename does not exist.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ELOOP]"
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating a pathname.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EROFS]"
In Q_QUOTAON, the quota file resides on a read-only file system.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EIO]"
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing
to a file containing quotas.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EFAULT]"
An invalid
\*Vaddr\*O
is supplied; the associated structure could not be copied in or out
of the kernel.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The
\*Vpath\*O
parameter
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EPERM]"
The call is privileged and the caller does not have appropriate
privilege.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:
\*Lquota\*O(1),
\*Ledquota\*O(8),
\*Lquotacheck\*O(8),
\*Lquotaon\*O(8),
\*Lrepquota\*O(8)
.iX "quotactl function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
