.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: readlink.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 17:48:58 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH readlink 2
.SH NAME
\*Lreadlink\*O \- Reads the value of a symbolic link
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <unistd.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint readlink\*O (\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char \*V*path\*L,
.nL
	\*Lchar \*V*buffer\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vbuf_size \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.VL 
.LI "\*Vpath\*O"
Specifies the pathname of the destination file or directory.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vbuffer\*O" 
Points to the user's buffer. The buffer should
be at least as large as the \*Vbuf_size\*O parameter.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vbuf_size\*O" 
Specifies the size of the buffer.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "readlink function"
.iX "link" "reading from symbolic"
.iX "symbolic link" "reading from"
.iX "file" "reading from a symbolic link"
.PP 
The \*Lreadlink(\|)\*O function places the contents of the symbolic
link named by the\*V path\*O parameter in \*Vbuffer\*O,
which has size\*V buf_size\*O.  If the actual length of the
symbolic link is less than \*Vbuf_size\*O,
the string copied into the buffer is null-terminated.
If the actual length of the symbolic link is greater than
\*Vbuf_size\*O, an error is returned.
The length of a symbolic link will not exceed PATH_MAX.
.PP 
For a \*Lreadlink(\|)\*O function to complete successfully,
the calling process must have search access to the directory containing
the link.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Trial use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the \*Lreadlink(\|)\*O function
returns a count of the number of characters placed in the buffer
(not including any terminating null).
If the \*Lreadlink(\|)\*O function fails, the buffer is not
modified, a value of -1 is returned,
and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the \*Lreadlink(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[ENOENT]"
The file named by the \*Vpath\*O parameter
does not exist or the \*V path\*O parameter points to an
empty string\*O.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EINVAL]" 
The file named by the \*Vpath\*O parameter
is not a symbolic link.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EIO]"
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.LI "[ERANGE]" 
The pathname in the symbolic link is
longer than
\*Vbuf_size\*O.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOTDIR]" 
A component of the path prefix of the \*Vpath\*O parameter is not a directory.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EACCES]" 
Search permission is denied on a component of the path prefix of the
\*Vpath\*O parameter,
or read permission is denied on the final component of the path prefix
of the \*Vpath\*O parameter.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]" 
The length of the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter exceeds
PATH_MAX,
or a pathname component is longer than
NAME_MAX while {_POSIX_NO_TRUNC} is in effect.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Llink\*O(2),
\*Lstat\*O(2),
\*Lsymlink\*O(2),
\*Lunlink\*O(2)
.iX "readlink function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
