.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: reboot.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.7.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 17:50:29 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)reboot.2	6.4 (Berkeley) 6/30/90
.\" 
.TH reboot 2
.SH NAME
\*Lreboot\*O \- Reboots system or halts processor
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/reboot.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lvoid reboot(
.nL
	int \*Vhowto \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vhowto\*O"
Specifies a mask of options.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "reboot function"
.iX "system" "rebooting"
.iX "processor" "halting"
The
\*Lreboot(\|)\*O
function
restarts the system.
The startup is automatic and brings up
\*L/vmunix\*O
in the normal, nonmaintenance mode.
The calling process must have
superuser
privilege to run this function successfully.
However, a reboot is invoked
automatically in the event of unrecoverable system failures.
.PP 
The following
options,
defined in the
\*Lsys/reboot.h\*O
include file are passed
to the new kernel or the new bootstrap and init programs.
They are supplied as values to the
\*Vhowto\*O
parameter.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "RB_AUTOBOOT"
The default, causing the system to reboot in its usual fashion.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "RB_ASKNAME" 
Interpreted by the bootstrap program itself, causing it to
prompt on the console as to what file should be booted.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "RB_DFLTROOT" 
Use the compiled-in root device.
If possible, the system uses the device from which it was booted
as the root device.
(The default behavior is dependent on the ability of the bootstrap program
to determine the drive from which it was loaded, which is not possible
on all systems.)
.\"from TP "  
.LI "RB_DUMP" 
Dump kernel memory before rebooting; see the
\*Lsavecore\*O
command
for more information.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "RB_HALT" 
The processor is simply halted; no reboot takes place.
This option should be used with caution.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "RB_INITNAME" 
Allows the specification of an init program (see the
\*Linit\*O
program)
other than
\*L/sbin/init\*O
to be run when the system reboots.
This switch is not currently available.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "RB_KDB" 
Load the symbol table and enable a built-in debugger in the system.
This option has no useful function if the kernel is not configured
for debugging.
Several other options have different meanings if combined
with this option, although their use may not be possible
via the
\*Lreboot(\|)\*O
function.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "RB_NOSYNC" 
Normally, the disks are sync'd (see the
\*Lsync(\|)\*O
command)
before the processor is halted or rebooted.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "RB_RDONLY" 
Initially mount the root file system read-only.
This is currently the default, and this option has been deprecated as
a no-op.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "RB_SINGLE" 
Normally, the reboot procedure involves an automatic disk consistency
check and then multiuser operations.
RB_SINGLE prevents this, booting the system with a single-user shell
on the console.
RB_SINGLE is actually interpreted by the
\*Linit\*O
program in the newly booted system.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "RB_UNIPROC" 
Restart the system in uniprocessor mode.
.wH .RE
.LE 
.PP 
When no options are given (that is, RB_AUTOBOOT is used), the system is
rebooted from file
\*Lvmunix\*O
in the root file system of unit 0 (zero)
of a disk chosen in a processor-specific way.
An automatic consistency check of the disks is then normally performed
(see the
\*Lfsck\*O
command).
.PP 
Some options may not be supported on all machines.
.SH RETURN VALUES
If successful, this call does not return.
Otherwise, a \-1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If the
\*Lreboot(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to the following value:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EPERM]"
The calling process does not have appropriate privilege.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Different utility name on DEC OSF/1
.\" \*Lcrash\*O(8),
\*Lcrashdc\*O(8),
.\" End Digital-specific information
\*Lhalt\*O(8),
\*Linit\*O(8),
\*Lreboot\*O(8),
\*Lsavecore\*O(8)
.iX "reboot function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
