.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rename.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 17:55:28 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH rename 2
.SH NAME
\*Lrename\*O \-  Renames a directory or a file within a file system
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <stdio.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint rename (
.nL
	char *\*Vfrom\*L,
.nL
	char *\*Vto \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vfrom\*O"
Identifies the file or directory to be renamed.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vto\*O" 
Identifies the new pathname of the file or directory
to be renamed. If the \*Vto\*O parameter is an existing file or
empty directory, it is replaced by the \*Vfrom\*O parameter. If the \*Vto\*O
parameter is a nonempty directory, the \*Lrename(\|)\*O function exits with
an error.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "rename function"
.iX "file" "renaming"
.iX "directory" "renaming"
.iX "filesystem" "renaming files and directories"
.PP 
The \*Lrename(\|)\*O function renames a directory or a file
within a file system.
.PP 
For \*Lrename(\|)\*O to complete successfully, the calling process
must have write and search permission to the parent directories of
both the \*Vfrom\*O and \*Vto\*O parameters. If the \*Vfrom\*O parameter is
a directory and the parent directories of \*Vfrom\*O and \*Vto\*O
are different, then the calling process must have write and search
permission to the \*Vfrom\*O parameter as well.
.PP 
If the \*Vfrom\*O and \*Vto\*O parameters both refer to the same
existing file, the \*Lrename(\|)\*O function returns successfully
and performs no other action.
.PP 
Both the \*Vfrom\*O and \*Vto\*O parameters must be of the same
type (that is, both directories or both nondirectories) and must
reside on the same file system. If the \*Vto\*O parameter already exists,
it is first removed. In this case it is guaranteed that a link named
the \*Vto\*O
parameter will exist throughout the operation. This link refers to the
file named by either the \*Vto\*O or \*Vfrom\*O parameter before the
operation began.
.PP 
If the final component of the \*Vfrom\*O parameter is a symbolic link,
the symbolic link (not the file or directory to which it points) is
renamed.
If the final component of the
\*Vto\*O
parameter is a symbolic link, the symbolic link is destroyed.
.PP 
If the \*Vfrom\*O and \*Vto\*O parameters
name directories, the following must be true:
.\"from TP 4"  
.ML
.LI
The \*Vfrom\*O parameter is not an ancestor of the \*Vto\*O parameter.
For example,
the \*Vto\*O pathname must not contain a path prefix that
names \*Vfrom\*O.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The \*Vfrom\*O parameter is well-formed.  For example, the \*L.\*O (dot)
entry
in\*V from\*O, if it exists, refers to the same directory as \*Vfrom\*O,
exactly one directory has a link to \*Vfrom\*O (excluding
the self-referential \*L. \*O), and the \*L..\*O (dot-dot) entry in\*V
from\*O, if it exists, refers to the directory that contains
an entry for\*V from\*O.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The \*Vto\*O parameter, if it exists, must be well-formed (as defined previously).
.LE 
.LE 
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lrename(\|)\*O
function marks the
\*Lst_ctime\*O
and
\*Lst_mtime\*O
fields of the parent directory of each file for update.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the \*Lrename(\|)\*O function returns
a value of 0 (zero).  Otherwise, a value of
-1 is returned, and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the \*Lrename(\|)\*O function fails, the file or directory
name remains unchanged
and
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[ENOTDIR]"
The \*Vfrom\*O parameter names a directory and the \*Vto\*O parameter
names a nondirectory.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EISDIR]" 
The \*Vto\*O parameter names a directory
and the\*V from\*O parameter names a nondirectory.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOENT]" 
A component of either path does not exist,
or either path is the empty string, or the
file named by the \*Vfrom\*O parameter does not exist.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EACCES]" 
Creating the requested link requires writing in
a directory with a mode that denies write permission,
or a component of either pathname denies search permission.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EXDEV]" 
The link named by the \*Vto\*O parameter and the file named by the
\*Vfrom\*O parameter are on different file systems.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EBUSY]" 
The directory named by the \*Vfrom\*O or \*Vto\*O
parameter is currently in use by the system or by another process.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EINVAL]" 
Either the \*Vfrom\*O or \*Vto\*O parameter
is not a well-formed directory,
an attempt is made to rename . (dot) or .. (dot-dot),
or
the \*Vfrom\*O parameter is an ancestor of the \*Vto\*O
parameter.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EROFS]" 
The requested operation requires writing in a directory
on a read-only file system.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EEXIST]" 
The \*Vto\*O parameter is an existing nonempty
directory.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOSPC]" 
The directory that would contain \*Vto\*O
cannot be extended because the file system is out of space.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EDQUOT]" 
The directory that would contain \*Vto\*O cannot
be extended because the user's quota of disk blocks on the file system
containing the directory is exhausted.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EFAULT]" 
Either the
\*Vto\*O
or
\*Vfrom\*O
parameter is an invalid address.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[ELOOP]" 
Too many links were encountered in translating either
\*Vto\*O
or
\*Vfrom\*O.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]" 
The length of the
\*Vto\*O
or
\*Vfrom\*O
parameters exceeds
PATH_MAX
or a pathname component is longer than
NAME_MAX.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EPERM]" 
The S_ISVTX flag is set on the directory containing the file to be
renamed, and the caller is not the file owner.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lchmod\*O(2),
\*Llink\*O(2),
\*Lmkdir\*O(2),
\*Lrmdir\*O(2),
\*Lunlink\*O(2)
.PP 
Commands:
\*Lchmod\*O(1),
\*Lmkdir\*O(1),
\*Lmv\*O(1),
\*Lmvdir\*O(1)
.iX "rename function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
