.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: revoke.2,v $ $Revision: 3.4.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 17:57:00 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.TH revoke 2
.SH NAME
\*Lrevoke\*O \- Voids all references to a file
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lrevoke(
.nL
	char *\*Vpath\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.VL 
.LI "\*Vpath\*O" 
Points to a null-terminated string
containing the appropriate pathname.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "revoke function"
.iX "filesystem" "revoking file references"
.iX "file" "revoking references to"
.PP
The \*Lrevoke(\|)\*O system call invalidates all file descriptors
associated with the pathname specified in \*Vpath\*O, which must be a
block or character special file.  Any process holding a descriptor for
this file subsequently holds an invalid file descriptor, and will
receive errors if it accesses the file.  A subsequent
call to \*Lopen(\|)\*O will result in a valid file descriptor.
.PP
The effective user ID of the process
must be the same as the owner of the file, or must have
superuser
privilege in order to use the call in this manner.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. If
the \*Lrevoke(\|)\*O function fails, it returns a
value of -1, and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the \*Lrevoke\*O(\|) function fails, \*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The file represented by the pathname is of the incorrect type.
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]"
The size of the pathname exceeds PATH_MAX or a pathname
component is longer than NAME_MAX.
.LI "[ENOENT]" 
A component of the specified pathname does not exist,
or the \*Vpath\*O parameter points to an empty string.
.LI "[ENOTDIR]" 
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.LE 
.EQ
delim off
.EN
