.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rmdir.2,v $ $Revision: 3.6.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 17:58:44 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH rmdir 2
.SH NAME
\*Lrmdir\*O \- Removes a directory file
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lint rmdir (
.nL
	const char *\*Vpath \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.VL 
.LI "\*Vpath"
\*OSpecifies the directory pathname.
The final component of the \*Vpath\*O parameter
cannot be a symbolic link.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "rmdir function"
.iX "directory" "removing"
.iX "file" "removing a directory"
.PP 
The \*Lrmdir(\|)\*O function removes the directory specified
by the\*V path\*O parameter.  The directory is removed only if it
is an empty directory.
.PP 
\*OFor the\*L rmdir(\|)\*O function to execute successfully, the
calling process must have write access to the parent directory of
the \*Vpath\*O
parameter.
.PP 
If the directory's link count becomes 0 (zero) and no process has the
directory open, the space occupied by the directory is
freed and the directory is no longer accessible.
If one or more processes have the directory
open when the last link is removed, the . (dot) and .\|. (dot-dot)
entries, if
present,
are removed before the
\*Lrmdir(\|)\*O
function returns, and no new entries may be created in the directory.
However, the directory is not removed until all references to the directory
have been closed.
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lrmdir(\|)\*O
function marks the
\*Lst_ctime\*O
and
\*Lst_mtime\*O
fields of the parent directory for update.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the \*Lrmdir(\|)\*O function returns
a value of 0 (zero). If the \*Lrmdir(\|)\*O function fails, a value of
-1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the \*Lrmdir(\|)\*O function fails, the directory is not
deleted and
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EBUSY]"
The directory is in use as either the mount point
for a file system or the current directory of the process that issued
the\*L rmdir(\|) \*Ofunction.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EEXIST]" 
The directory named by the \*Vpath\*O parameter
is not empty.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EIO]"
While reading from or writing to the file system, an I/O error occurred.
.LI "[ENOENT]" 
The directory named by the \*Vpath\*O parameter
does not exist or is an empty string.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EROFS]" 
The directory named by the \*Vpath\*O parameter
resides on a read-only file system.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EACCES]" 
Search permission is denied on a component of the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter,
or write permission is denied on the parent directory of the
directory to be removed.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EFAULT]" 
The
\*Vpath\*O
parameter is an invalid address.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[ELOOP]" 
Too many links were encountered in translating
\*Vpath\*O.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]" 
The length of the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter exceeds
PATH_MAX,
or a pathname component is longer than
NAME_MAX.  
.\" REVIEWERS: The AT&T reference page adds the following phrase to
.\" the previous sentence" "while {_POSIX_NO_TRUNC} is in effect". Should
.\" we add this phrase?
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EPERM]" 
The S_ISVTX flag is set on the parent directory of the directory to be
removed, and the caller is not the file owner.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOTDIR]" 
A component of the \*Vpath\*O parameter is not a directory.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lchmod\*O(2),
\*Lmkdir\*O(2),
\*Lmknod\*O(2),
\*Lmkfifo\*O(3),
\*Lremove\*O(3),
\*Lrename\*O(2),
\*Lumask\*O(2),
\*Lunlink\*O(2)
.iX "rmdir function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
