.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: select.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/29 20:09:55 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
.\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail 
.\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" 
.\" @(#)select.2	6.5 (Berkeley) 5/15/86
.\" 
.TH select 2
.SH NAME
\*Lselect\*O \- Synchronous I/O multiplexing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include\*O<\*Lsys/types.h\*O>\*L
.sp .4v
\*L#include\*O<\*Lsys/time.h\*O>\*L
.sp .4v
\*Lint select\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vnfds\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lfd_set\*O *\*Vreadfds\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lfd_set\*O *\*Vwritefds\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lfd_set\*O *\*Vexceptfds,
.nL
	\*Lstruct timeval\*O *\*Vtimeout) ;
.sp .4v
\*LFD_SET\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lint\*O \*Vfd,
.nL
	\*Lfd_set\*O *\*Vfdset\*O );\*L
.sp .4v
\*LFD_CLR\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lint\*O \*Vfd,
.nL
	\*Lfd_set\*O *\*Vfdset\*O );\*L
.sp .4v
\*LFD_ISSET(
.nL
	int \*Vfd\*L,
.nL
	\*Lfd_set\*O *\*Vfdset\*O );\*L
.sp .4v
\*LFD_ZERO\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lfd_set\*O *fdset );\*L
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vnfds\*O"
Specifies the number
of open objects that may be ready for reading or writing or that have
exceptions pending.
The
\*Vnfds\*O
parameter cannot be greater than FD_SETSIZE.
.LI "\*Vreadfds\*O"
Points to an I/O descriptor set consisting of file descriptors of
objects opened for reading. When the \*Vreadfds\*O parameter is a
null pointer, the read I/O descriptor set is ignored by the
\*Lselect(\|)\*O function.
.LI "\*Vwritefds\*O"
Points to an I/O descriptor set consisting of file descriptors for
objects opened for writing. When the \*Vwritefds\*O parameter is a
null pointer, the write I/O descriptor set is ignored.
.LI "\*Vexceptfds\*O"
Points to an I/O descriptor set consisting of file descriptors for
objects opened for reading or writing that have an exception pending.
When the \*Vexceptfds\*O parameter is a null pointer, the
exception I/O descriptor set is ignored.
.LI "\*Vtimeout\*O"
Points to a type \*Ltimeval\*O structure that specifies the time to
wait for a response to a \*Lselect(\|)\*O function. When the
\*Vtimeout\*O parameter has a nonzero value, the maximum time interval to wait
for the \*Lselect(\|)\*O function to complete is specified by values
stored in space reserved by the type \*Ltimeval\*O structure pointed
to by the \*Vtimeout\*O parameter.
.wH .RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.LI
When the \*Vtimeout\*O parameter is a null pointer, the \*Lselect(\|)\*O
function blocks indefinitely. To poll, the \*Vtimeout\*O parameter should
be specified as a nonzero value and point to a zero-valued timeval
structure.
.wH .RE
.LI "\*Vfd\*O"
Specifies a file descriptor.
.LI "\*Vfdset\*O"
Points to an I/O descriptor set.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "select function"
.iX "FD_SET macro"
.iX "FD_CLR macro"
.iX "FD_ISSET macro"
.iX "FD_ZERO macro"
.iX "file descriptor" "checking I/O status of"
.iX "file" "checking I/O status of file objects"
.iX "I/O status" "checking file descriptor sets for"
.iX "file descriptor" "sets for checking I/O status"
The \*Lselect(\|)\*O function checks the status of objects
identified by bit masks called
I/O descriptor sets. Each I/O descriptor set consists of an array of
bits whose relative position and state represent a file descriptor and
the status of its corresponding object.
There is an I/O
descriptor set for reading, writing, and for pending exceptions. These
I/O descriptor sets are pointed to by the \*Vreadfds\*O,
\*Vwritefds\*O, and \*Vexceptfds\*O parameters, respectively. The I/O
descriptor
sets provide a means of monitoring the read, write, and exception
status of objects represented by file descriptors.
.PP
The status of \*Vnfds\*O -  1 file descriptors in each referenced I/O
descriptor set is checked when the\*Lselect(\|)\*O function is called.
The
\*Lselect(\|)\*O
function returns a modified I/O
descriptor set, which has the following characteristics:
for any selected I/O descriptor set pointed to by
the \*Vreadfds\*O, \*Vwritefds\*O, and \*Vexceptfds\*O parameters, if
the state of
any bit corresponding with an active file descriptor is set
on entry, when the object represented by the set bit is ready for
reading, writing, or its exception condition has been satisfied, a
corresponding bit position is also set in the returned I/O descriptor set
pointed to by the \*Vreadfds\*O, \*Vwritefds\*O, or \*Vexceptfds\*O parameters.
.PP
On return, the \*Lselect(\|)\*O function replaces the original
I/O descriptor sets
with the corresponding I/O descriptor
sets that have a set bit for each file descriptor representing those objects
that are ready for the requested operation. The total number of ready
objects represented by set bits in all the I/O descriptor sets is returned
by the \*Lselect(\|)\*O function.
.PP
After an I/O descriptor set is created, it may be modified
with the following macros:
.VL
.LI "FD_ZERO\*O(&\*Vfdset\*O)"
Initializes the I/O descriptor set addressed by \*Vfdset\*O
to a null value.
.LI "FD_SET\*O(\*Vfd\*O, &\*Vfdset\*O)"
Includes the particular I/O descriptor bit specified by \*Vfd\*O in the I/O
descriptor set addressed by \*Vfdset\*O.
.LI "FD_CLR\*O(\*Vfd\*O, &\*Vfdset\*O)"
Clears the I/O descriptor bit specified by file descriptor \*Vfd\*O in
the I/O descriptor set addressed by \*Vfdset\*O.
.LI "FD_ISSET\*O(\*Vfd\*O, &\*Vfdset\*O)"
Returns a nonzero value when the I/O descriptor bit for \*Vfd\*O is
included in the I/O descriptor set addressed by \*Vfdset\*O.
Otherwise 0 (zero) is returned.
.LE
.PP
The behavior of these macros is undefined when parameter \*Vfd\*O has a
value less than 0 (zero) or greater than or equal to FD_SETSIZE,
which is normally at least equal to the maximum number of file
descriptors supported by the system.
.SH NOTES
.PP
Although the \*Lgetdtablesize(\|)\*O function
is intended to allow users to write programs independently
of the kernel limit on the number of open files, the dimensioning
of a sufficiently large bit field for \*Lselect(\|)\*O  remains a problem.
The default size FD_SETSIZE (currently 256) is larger than
the current kernel limit on the permitted number of open files.
To accommodate programs that
specify more open files with the \*Lselect(\|)\*O function, it
is possible to specify an alternate
value for FD_SETSIZE before including
the
\*Lsys/types.h\*O
header file.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Digital Extension environment note.
.PP
FD_SETSIZE is set to the current kernel limit on the permitted number of
open files.  To accommodate programs that need to specify alternate fd_set
sizes, it is possible to specify an alternative value for FD_SETSIZE before
including the \*Lsys/types.h\*O header file.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion,
the \*Lselect(\|)\*O function returns the number of ready objects
represented by corresponding file descriptor bits in the I/O descriptor
sets.  When an error occurs, -1 is returned.  When the
time limit specified by values pointed to by the \*Vtimeout\*O
parameter expires,
this function returns the value 0 (zero).
.PP
When \*Lselect(\|)\*O returns an error, including a process interrupt,
the I/O descriptor sets pointed to by the \*Vreadfds\*O, \*Vwritefds\*O,
and \*Vexceptfds\*O parameters remain unmodified.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lselect(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.VL 1i
.LI "[EBADF]"
One of the I/O descriptor sets you specified is invalid.
.LI "[EINTR]"
A signal was delivered before the time limit specified by the
\*Vtimeout\*O parameter
expired and before any of the selected events occurred.
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The time limit specified by the \*Vtimeout\*O parameter is invalid.
One of its components
is negative or too large.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Digital Extension environment note.
.LI "[EAGAIN]"
Allocation of internal data structures failed.  A later call
to the \*Lselect()\*O function may complete successfully.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Laccept\*O(2),
\*Lconnect\*O(2),
\*Lsend\*O(2),
\*Lgetdtablesize\*O(2),
\*Lpoll\*O(2)
\*Lread\*O(2),
\*Lrecv\*O(2),
\*Lwrite\*O(2)
.iX "select function"
.iX "FD_SET macro"
.iX "FD_CLR macro"
.iX "FD_ISSET macro"
.iX "FD_ZERO macro"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
