.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sendto.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 09:16:10 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH sendto 2
.SH NAME
\*Lsendto\*O \- Sends messages through a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.sp .4v
\*L#include <sys/socket.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint sendto\*O (\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vsocket\*L,
.nL
	\*Lchar *\*Vmessage_addr\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vlength\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vflags\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct sockaddr *\*Vdest_addr\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vdest_len \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vsocket"
\*OSpecifies the unique name for the socket.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vmessage_addr" 
\*OPoints to the address containing the message to be sent.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vlength" 
\*OSpecifies the size of the message in bytes.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vflags" 
\*OAllows the sender to control the message transmission.  The
\*Vflags\*O value to send a call is formed by logically ORing
the following values, defined in the
\*Lsys/socket.h\*O
file:
.wH .RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.\"from TP .5i"  
.VL
.LI "MSG_OOB" 
Processes out-of-band data on sockets that support
out-of-band data.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "MSG_DONTROUTE" 
Sends without using routing tables.  (Not recommended, for debugging
purposes only.)
.wH .RE
.\"from TP "  
.LE
.LI "\*Vdest_addr" 
.wH .RS  Can not be used in nested lists
\*OPoints to a
\*Lsockaddr\*O
structure,
the format of which is determined by the domain and
by the behavior requested for the socket.
The
\*Lsockaddr\*O
structure is an overlay for a
\*Lsockaddr_in\*O,
\*Lsockaddr_un\*O,
or
\*Lsockaddr_ns\*O
structure, depending on which of the supported address families is
active.
.PP 
If the compile-time option
_SOCKADDR_LEN
is
defined
before the
\*Lsys/socket.h\*O
header file
is included, the
\*Lsockaddr\*O
structure takes 4.4BSD behavior,
with a
field for specifying the length of the socket
address.  Otherwise,
the default 4.3BSD
\*Lsockaddr\*O
structure is used, with the length of the socket address assumed to
be 14 bytes or less.
.PP 
If
_SOCKADDR_LEN
is defined, the 4.3BSD
\*Lsockaddr\*O
structure is defined with the name
\*Losockaddr\*O.
.wH .RE
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vdest_len"
\*OSpecifies
the length of the
\*Lsockaddr\*O
structure pointed to by the
\*Vdest_addr\*O parameter.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "sendto function"
.iX "socket" "sending messages through unconnected"
.iX "messages" "sending through unconnected sockets"
.PP 
The \*Lsendto(\|)\*O function allows an application program
to send messages through an unconnected socket by specifying a
destination address.
.PP 
To broadcast on a socket, issue a
\*Lsetsockopt(\|)\*O function
using the SO_BROADCAST option
to gain broadcast permissions.
.PP 
Use the \*Vdest_addr\*O parameter to provide the address of the target.
Specify the length of the message with the \*Vlength\*O parameter.
.PP 
If the \*Lsending\*O socket has no space to hold the message
to be transmitted, the \*Lsendto(\|)\*O function blocks
unless the socket is in a nonblocking
\*OI/O mode.
.PP 
Use the \*Lselect(\|)\*O function to
determine when it is possible to send more data.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the \*Lsendto(\|)\*O function returns
the number of characters sent.
Otherwise, the a
value of -1 is returned, and\*L 
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the
\*Lsendto(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EBADF]"
The \*Vsocket\*O parameter is not valid.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOTSOCK]" 
The \*Vsocket\*O parameter refers to a file, not a socket.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EFAULT]" 
The \*Vdest_addr\*O parameter is not in a writable part of the user
address space.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EMSGSIZE]" 
The message is too large to be sent all at once,
as the socket requires.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EWOULDBLOCK]" 
The socket is marked nonblocking, and no space is available
for the
\*Lsendto(\|)\*O
function.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lrecv\*O(2),
\*Lrecvfrom\*O(2),
\*Lrecvmsg\*O(2),
\*Lsend\*O(2),
\*Lsendmsg\*O(2),
\*Lshutdown\*O(2),
\*Lsocket\*O(2),
\*Lselect\*O(2),
\*Lgetsockopt\*O(2),
\*Lsetsockopt\*O(2)
.iX "sendto function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
