.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sendmsg.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/21 16:02:24 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
...\"build rmifdef
...\"
...\"
.TH sendmsg 2
.SH NAME
\*Lsendmsg\*O - Sends a message from a socket using a message structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "sendmsg function"
.iX "socket" "sending messages using a message structure"
.iX "messages" "sending messages using a message structure"
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*L#include <sys/socket.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint sendmsg\*O (\*L
.sp .4v
	\*Lint \*Vsocket\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct msghdr \*V*message\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vflags \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vsocket"
\*OSpecifies the socket descriptor.
.LI "\*Vmessage\*O"
\*OPoints to a
\*Lmsghdr\*O
structure, containing pointers to both the destination address for the outgoing
message and to buffers containing ancillary data. The format of the
address is determined by the behavior requested for the
socket.
If the compile-time option
_SOCKADDR_LEN
is defined before the
<\*Lsys/socket.h\*O>
header file is included, the
\*Lmsghdr\*O
structure takes 4.4BSD behavior.
Otherwise, the default 4.3BSD
\*Lmsghdr\*O
structure is used.
.LI
In 4.4BSD, the
\*Lmsghdr\*O
structure has
a separate
\*Lmsg_flags\*O
field for holding flags from the received message.
In addition, the
\*Lmsg_accrights\*O
field is generalized into a
\*Lmsg_control\*O
field.  See the
\*Lrecvmsg(\|)\*O
function for more information.
.LI
If
_SOCKADDR_LEN
is defined, the 4.3BSD
\*Lmsghdr\*O
structure is defined with the name
\*Lomsghdr\*O.
.LI "\*Vflags"
\*OAllows the sender to control the message transmission.
The <\*Lsys/socket.h\*O> file contains
the\*V flags\*O values.  The\*V flags \*Ovalue to send a call
is formed by a logical OR of one or both of the following values:
.RS
.VL 15
.LI "MSG_OOB"
Processes out-of-band data on sockets that support
out-of-band data.
.LI "MSG_DONTROUTE"
Sends without using routing tables.  (Not recommended, for debugging
purposes only.)
.LE
.LE
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lsendmsg(\|)\*O function sends messages through connected
or unconnected sockets using the
\*Lmsghdr\*O message structure.
This minimizes the number of directly supplied parameters to the function
call. The <\*Lsys/socket.h\*O> file contains the\*L msghdr\*O structure and
defines the structure members.
.PP
To broadcast on a socket, the application program must first issue
a \*Lsetsockopt(\|)\*O function
using the SO_BROADCAST option
to gain broadcast permissions.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lsendmsg(\|)\*O function returns
the number of characters sent.
Otherwise,
a value of -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lsendmsg(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.VL 15
.LI "[EBADF]"
The \*Vsocket\*O parameter is not valid.
.LI "[EMSGSIZE]"
The message is too large to be sent all at once,
as the socket requires.
.LI "[ENOTSOCK]"
The \*Vsocket\*O parameter refers to a file, not a socket.
.LI "[EWOULDBLOCK]"
The socket is marked \*Ononblocking,
and no space is available for the
\*Lsendmsg(\|)\*O
function.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lrecv\*O(2),
\*Lrecvfrom\*O(2),
\*Lrecvmsg\*O(2),
\*Lsend\*O(2),
\*Lsendto\*O(2),
\*Lshutdown\*O(2),
\*Lsocket\*O(2),
\*Lselect\*O(2),
\*Lgetsockopt\*O(2),
\*Lsetsockopt\*O(2)
.iX "sendmsg function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
