.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: send.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 18:07:19 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH send 2
.SH NAME
\*Lsend\*O \- Sends messages on a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.sp .4v
\*L#include <sys/socket.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint send\*O (\*L
.sp .4v
	\*Lint \*Vsocket\*L,
.nL
	\*Lchar *\*Vmessage\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vlength\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vflags \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vsocket"
\*OSpecifies
the unique name for the socket.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vmessage" 
\*OPoints to
the address of the message to send.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vlength" 
\*OSpecifies
the length of the message in bytes.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vflags" 
\*OAllows the
sender to control the transmission of the message.  The \*Vflags\*O
parameter to send a call is formed by logically ORing
the values shown in the following list, defined in the
\*Lsys/socket.h\*O
header file:
.wH .RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.\"from TP .5i"  
.VL
.LI "MSG_OOB" 
Sends out-of-band data on sockets that support
out-of-band communication.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "MSG_DONTROUTE" 
Sends without using routing tables.  (Not recommended, for debugging
purposes only.)
.LE
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "send function"
.iX "socket" "sending messages through connected"
.iX "messages" "sending through connected sockets"
.PP 
The \*Lsend(\|)\*O function sends a message only when the socket
is connected.  The
\*Lsendto(\|)\*O and
\*Lsendmsg(\|)\*O functions
can be used with unconnected or connected sockets.
.PP 
Specify the length of the message with the \*Vlength\*O parameter.
If the message is too long to pass through the underlying protocol,
the system returns an error and does not transmit the message.
.PP 
\*ONo indication of failure to deliver is implied in a \*Lsend(\|)\*O
function.  A return value of -1 indicates only locally
detected errors.
.PP 
If no space for messages is available at the sending socket to
hold the message to be transmitted, the \*Lsend(\|)\*O function
blocks unless the socket is in a nonblocking
\*OI/O mode.  Use the
\*Lselect(\|)\*O function to
determine when it is possible to send more data.
.SH NOTES
The
\*Lsend(\|)\*O
function is identical to the
\*Lsendto(\|)\*O
function with a zero-valued
\*Vdest_len\*O
parameter, and to the
\*Lwrite(\|)\*O
function if no flags are used.
For that reason, the
\*Lsend(\|)\*O
function is disabled when 4.4BSD
behavior is enabled (that is, when the
_SOCKADDR_LEN compile-time option is defined).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the \*Lsend(\|)\*O function returns
the number of characters sent.
Otherwise,
a value of -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the
\*Lsend(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EBADF]"
The \*Vsocket\*O parameter is not valid.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOTSOCK]" 
The \*Vsocket\*O parameter refers to a file,
not a socket.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EFAULT]" 
The \*Vmessage\*O parameter is not in a readable or writable
part of the user address space.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EMSGSIZE]" 
The message is too large be sent all at once,
as the socket requires.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EWOULDBLOCK]" 
The socket is marked nonblocking, and no
space is available for the
\*Lsend(\|)\*O
function.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lrecv\*O(2),
\*Lrecvfrom\*O(2),
\*Lrecvmsg\*O(2),
\*Lsendmsg\*O(2),
\*Lsendto\*O(2),
\*Lshutdown\*O(2),
\*Lconnect\*O(2),
\*Lsocket\*O(2),
\*Lgetsockopt\*O(2),
\*Lselect\*O(2),
\*Lsetsockopt\*O(2)
.iX "send function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
