.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: setgroups.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 18:13:38 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH setgroups 2
.SH NAME
\*Lsetgroups\*O \- Sets the group access list
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <unistd.h>
.sp .4v
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.nL
\*Lint setgroups (
.nL
        \*Lint \*Vgidsetsize\*L,
.nL
        \*Lgid_t \*Vgrouplist\*O\|\*L[\|] );
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vgidsetsize"
\*OIndicates the number of entries in the array
pointed to by the \*Vgrouplist\*O parameter.
Must not be more than
NGROUPS_MAX, as defined in the \*Llimits.h\*O header file.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vgrouplist" 
\*OPoints to the array that contains the group access
list of the current user process.  Element
\*Vgrouplist\*L[0]\*O becomes the new effective group ID.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "setgroups function"
.iX "process" "setting the group access list"
.iX "group access list" "setting"
.PP 
The \*Lsetgroups(\|)\*O function sets the group access list
of the current user process according to the array pointed to by the\*V 
\*Vgrouplist\*O parameter.
This function fails unless the invoking process has
superuser
privilege.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Trial use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, a value of 0
(zero) is returned.  If the \*Lsetgroups(\|)\*O
function fails, a value of -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.wH .rS
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the \*Lsetgroups(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EPERM]"
\*OThe caller does not have the appropriate
system privilege.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EINVAL]" 
\*OThe value of the \*Vgidsetsize\*O parameter is
greater than NGROUPS_MAX or an entry in the
\*Vgrouplist\*O
parameter is not a valid group ID.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EFAULT]" 
\*OThe \*Vgrouplist\*O parameter points outside
of the allocated address space of the process.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lgetgroups\*O(2),
\*Linitgroups\*O(3)
.iX "setgroups function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
