.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: setgid.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 18:12:01 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH setgid 2
.SH NAME
\*Lsetgid\*O \- Sets the group ID
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint setgid (
.nL
	\*Lgid_t \*Vgid\*L );\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP 5"  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vgid\*O"
Specifies the new group ID.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "setgid function"
.iX "group ID" "setting"
.iX "group ID" "real, effective, and saved set"
.iX "process" "setting real, effective, and saved set group ID"
.PP
The
\*Lsetgid(\|)\*O
function sets the real group ID, effective group ID,
and the saved set group ID to the value specified by the
\*Vgid\*O parameter.
.PP 
If the process does not have superuser privilege, but the
\*Vgid\*O parameter
is equal to the real group ID or the saved set group ID, the
\*Lsetgid(\|)\*O
function sets the effective group ID to
\*Vgid\*O;
the real group ID and saved set group ID
remain unchanged.
.PP
Any supplementary group IDs of the calling process remain
unchanged.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lsetgid(\|)\*O function returns 0 (zero).
Otherwise, \-1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\^\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the
\*Lsetgid(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The value of the
\*Vgid\*O
parameter is invalid.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EPERM]" 
The process
does not have superuser privilege and the
\*Vgid\*O parameter
does not match the real group
ID
or the saved set group ID.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lexec\*O(2),
\*Lgetgid\*O(2),
\*Lsetuid\*O(2)
.iX "setgid function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
