.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sethostname.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 18:16:48 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH sethostname 2
.SH NAME
\*Lsethostname\*O \- Sets the name of the current host
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lint sethostname\*O (\*L
.nL
	\*Lchar *\*Vname\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vname_len \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vname"
\*OPoints to
an array of bytes where the hostname is stored.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vname_len" 
\*OSpecifies
the length of the array pointed to by the \*Vname\*O parameter.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "sethostname function"
.iX "host" "setting name of current"
.iX "hostname" "setting for current host"
.PP 
The \*Lsethostname(\|)\*O function allows a calling process
with root user authority to set the internal hostname of a machine
on a network.
.PP 
System hostnames are limited to MAXHOSTNAMELEN as defined
in the \*L/usr/include/sys/param.h\*O file.
.PP 
The
\*Lsethostid(\|)\*O
function fails if the calling process does not have
superuser
privilege.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the system returns a value of 0 (zero).
\*OIf the \*Lsethostname(\|)\*O function fails,
-1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the \*Lsethostname(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The \*Vname\*O parameter or the \*Vname_len\*O parameter
gives an address that is not valid.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EPERM]" 
The calling process does not have appropriate privilege.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lgethostid\*O(2),
\*Lsethostid\*O(2),
\*Lgethostname\*O(2)
.iX "sethostname function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
