.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sethostid.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 18:15:22 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH sethostid 2
.SH NAME
\*Lsethostid\*O \- Sets the unique identifier of the current host
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lint sethostid\*O (\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vhost_id \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.VL 
.LI "\*Vhost_id"
\*OSpecifies
the unique 32-bit identifier for the current host.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "sethostid function"
.iX "host ID" "setting for current host"
.iX "host" "setting ID for current"
.PP 
The \*Lsethostid(\|)\*O function allows a calling process with
a \*Oroot user ID to set a
new 32-bit identifier for the current host.  The \*Lsethostid(\|)\*O function enables an application program to reset the host ID.
The host ID is a unique number which may be used by application
programs.  It is usually set to the primary IP address of the local
machine.
.PP 
The
\*Lsethostid(\|)\*O
function fails if the calling process does not have
superuser
privilege.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the \*Lsethostid(\|)\*O function
returns a value of 0 (zero).
\*OIf the \*Lsethostid(\|)\*O function fails,
a value of -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the \*Lsethostid(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to the following value:
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "[EPERM]"
The calling process does not have the appropriate
privilege.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lgethostid\*O(2),
\*Lgethostname\*O(2)
.iX "sethostid function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
