.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: setpgid.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 22:40:52 $
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH setpgid 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsetpgid\*O, \*Lsetpgrp\*O \- Sets the process group ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint setpgid (
.nL
	pid_t \*Vprocess_id\*L,
.nL
	pid_t \*Vprocess_group_id \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*Vprocess_id"
\*OSpecifies the process whose process
group ID is to be changed.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vprocess_group_id"
\*OSpecifies the new process group ID.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "setpgid function"
.iX "setpgrp function"
.iX "group ID" "setting for process"
.iX "process" "setting group ID"
The \*Lsetpgid(\|)\*O function is used either to join an existing
process group or to create a new process group within the session
of the calling process.
The process group ID of a session leader will not change.
.PP
The process group
ID of the process designated by the \*Vprocess_id\*O parameter
is set to the value of the \*Vprocess_group_id\*O parameter.
If \*Vprocess_id\*O is 0 (zero), the process
ID of the calling process is used.  If
\*Vprocess_group_id\*O
is 0 (zero), the process group ID of the indicated process is used.
.PP
This function is implemented to support job control.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Lsetpgrp(\|)\*O function
is supported by OSF/1 for binary compatibility only.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use (\*Lsetpgid(\|)\*O)
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. Otherwise,
a value of -1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is
set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the
\*Lsetpgid(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
\*OThe value of the \*Vprocess_group_id\*O parameter
is less than or equal to 0 (zero), or is not a valid process ID.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EPERM]"
\*OThe value of the \*Vprocess_group_id\*O parameter is a valid process
ID, but that process is not in the same session as the calling process.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EPERM]"
The process indicated by the
\*Vprocess_id\*O
parameter is a session leader.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EPERM]"
The value of the
\*Vprocess_id\*O
parameter matches the process ID of a child process of the
calling process and the child process is not in the same session as
the calling process.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EPERM]"
The value of the
\*Vprocess_group_id\*O
parameter is valid but does not match the process ID of the process
indicated by the
\*Vprocess_id\*O
parameter, and there is no process with a process group ID that
matches the value of the
\*Vprocess_group_id\*O
parameter in the same session as the calling process.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ESRCH]"
The value of the
\*Vprocess_id\*O
parameter does not match the process ID of the calling
process or of a child process of the calling process.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EACCES]"
The value of the
\*Vprocess_id\*O
parameter matches the process ID of a child process of the calling
process and the child process has successfully executed
one of the
\*Lexec\*O
functions.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetpid\*O(2)
.iX "setpgid function"
.iX "setpgrp function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
