.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: setreuid.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 18:20:54 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)setreuid.2	6.3 (Berkeley) 6/23/90
.\" 
.TH setreuid 2
.SH NAME
\*Lsetreuid\*O \- Sets real and effective user ID's
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lsetreuid(
.nL
	int \*Vruid\*L,
.nL
	int \*Veuid \*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vruid\*O"
Specifies the new real user ID.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Veuid\*O" 
Specifies the new effective user ID.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "setreuid function"
.iX "user ID" "setting real and effective"
.iX "user ID" "real and effective"
.iX "process" "setting real and effective user ID's"
The
\*Lsetreuid(\|)\*O
function sets
the real and effective user ID's of the
current process to the values specified by the
\*Vruid\*O
and
\*Veuid\*O
parameters.
If
\*Vruid\*O
or
\*Veuid\*O
is \-1, the current uid is filled in by the system.
.PP 
Unprivileged users may change the effective user
ID to the real user ID; only processes with
superuser
privilege may make other changes.
This is normally done by the system's authentication program (for example,
\*Llogin\*O), but is not done for system daemons.
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned.  Otherwise,
a value of \-1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the
\*Lsetreuid(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to the following value:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EPERM]" 
The current process is not the superuser and a change
other than changing the effective user ID to the real user ID
was specified.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lgetuid\*O(2),
\*Lsetgid\*O(2),
\*Lsetregid\*O(2),
\*Lsetruid\*O(3)
.iX "setreuid function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
