.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: setsid.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 09:18:50 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH setsid 2
.SH NAME
\*Lsetsid\*O \- Sets the process group ID
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <unistd.h>
.PP
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.PP
\*Lpid_t setsid( void );
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "setsid function"
.iX "group ID" "setting"
.iX "process" "setting ID"
.iX "session" "creating a new one"
.iX "process" "creating a session"
.PP
The \*Lsetsid(\|)\*O function creates a new session
when the calling process is not a process group leader.  The
calling process then becomes the
session leader of this session, becomes the process leader
of the new process group, and has no controlling terminal.  The
process group ID of the calling process is set equal to its process
ID.  The calling process becomes the only process in the new process
group and the only process in the new session.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the value of the new process group
ID is returned.  Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lsetsid(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to the following value:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EPERM]"
The calling process is already the process group leader,
or the
process group ID of a process other than the calling process matches
the process ID of the calling process.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.LE
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetpid\*O(2),
\*Lsetpgid\*O(2)
.iX "setsid function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
