.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: setuid.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 18:23:44 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH setuid 2
.SH NAME
\*Lsetuid\*O \- Sets the user ID
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint setuid (
.nL
	\*Luid_t \*Vuid\*L );
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.VL 
.LI "\*Vuid\*O"
Specifies the new user ID.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "setuid function"
.iX "user ID" "setting"
.iX "user ID" "setting real, effective, and saved set"
.iX "user ID" "real, effective, and saved set"
.iX "process" "setting real, effective, and save set user ID"
.PP
The
\*Lsetuid(\|)\*O
function sets the real user ID, effective user ID, and the saved
set user ID to the
\*Vuid\*O parameter.
.PP 
To change the real user ID, the effective user ID, and the saved set
user ID, the calling process must have
superuser
privilege.
If the process does not have appropriate privilege, but the
\*Vuid\*O parameter
is equal to the real user ID or the saved set user ID, the
\*Lsetuid(\|)\*O
function sets the effective user ID to the
\*Vuid\*O parameter;
the real user ID and saved set user ID remain unchanged.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\^\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the
\*Lsetuid(\|)\*O
function
fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EAGAIN]"
The process is attempting an operation that would exceeds a system
limit, such as the number of tasks or threads allowed for a uid.
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The value of the
\*Vuid\*O
parameter is invalid and not supported by the implementation.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EPERM]" 
The process does not have superuser privileges, and the
\*Vuid\*O parameter
does not match the real user ID or
the saved set user ID.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lexec\*O(2),
\*Lgetuid\*O(2),
\*Lsetreuid\*O(2)
.iX "setuid function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
