.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: shmat.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 18:24:54 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH shmat 2
.SH NAME
\*Lshmat\*O \- Attaches a shared memory region
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/types.h\*O>\*L
.nL
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/ipc.h\*O>\*L
.nL
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/shm.h\*O>\*L
.nL
\*Lvoid *shmat\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lint\*O \*Vshmid\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lvoid\*O \*V*shmaddr\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lint\*O \*Vshmflg\*O);\*L
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "\*Vshmid\*O"
Specifies the ID for the shared memory region.  The ID is typically returned by
a previous
\*Lshmget(\|)\*O
function.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vaddr\*O" 
Specifies the virtual address at which the process wants to attach the shared
memory region.  The process can also specify 0 (zero) to have the kernel
select an appropriate address.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vflags\*O" 
Specifies the attach flags.  Possible values are:
.wH .RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.\"from TP .5i"  
.VL
.LI "SHM_RND" 
If the
\*Vaddr\*O parameter
is not 0 (zero), the kernel rounds off the address, if necessary.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "SHM_RDONLY" 
If the calling process has read permission, the kernel attaches the
region for reading only.
.wH .RE
.LE 
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "shmat function"
.iX "shared memory" "attaching"
.iX "process" "attaching shared memory region"
.iX "virtual memory" "attaching shared memory region"
.iX "virtual memory" "shared memory region"
.PP
The
\*Lshmat()\*O
function attaches the shared memory region identified by the
\*Vshmid\*O parameter
to the virtual address space of the calling process.
For the
\*Vaddr\*O parameter,
the process can
specify either an explicit address or 0 (zero), to have the kernel
select the address.  If an explicit address is used, the process can
set the SHM_RND flag to have the kernel round off the address, if necessary.
.PP
Access to the shared memory region is determined by the operation
permissions in the
\*Vshm_perm.mode\*O
member in the region's
\*Lshmid_ds\*O
structure.  The low-order bits in
\*Vshm_perm.mode\*O
are interpreted as follows:
.PP
.\"from TP 8"  
.VL 
.LI "00400"
Read by user
.\"from TP "  
.LI "00200" 
Write by user
.\"from TP "  
.LI "00040" 
Read by group
.\"from TP "  
.LI "00020" 
Write by group
.\"from TP "  
.LI "00004" 
Read by others
.\"from TP "  
.LI "00002" 
Write by others
.LE 
.PP
The calling process is granted read and write permissions on the
attached region if at
least one of the following is true:
.\"from TP 4"  
.ML
.LI
The effective user ID of the
process
is superuser.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The effective user ID of the
process is equal to
\*Vshm_perm.cuid\*O
or
\*Vshm_perm.uid\*O
and bit 0600  in
\*Vshm_perm.mode\*O
is set.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The effective group ID of the
process is equal to
\*Vshm_perm.cgid\*O
or
\*Vshm_perm.gid\*O
and bit 0060  in
\*Vshm_perm.mode\*O
is set.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
Bit 0006  in
\*Vshm_perm.mode\*O
is set.
.LE 
.PP
If the process has read permission, it can attach the region
as read only by setting the SHM_RDONLY flag.
.PP
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the starting address for the attached
region is returned. If the \*Lshmat()\*O
function fails, a value of -1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lshmat()\*O function fails, the shared memory region
is not attached and
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EACCES]"
The calling process does not have the appropriate privilege.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOMEM]" 
There was not enough data space available to attach the shared memory
region.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EINVAL]" 
The \*Vshmid\*O
parameter does not specify a valid shared memory region ID;
the \*Vaddr\*O parameter
is not 0 (zero) and not a valid address; or the
\*Vaddr\*O parameter
is not 0 (zero) and not a valid address, and SHM_RND is not set.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EMFILE]" 
An attempt to attach a shared memory region exceeded the
maximum number of attached regions allowed for any one process.
.LE 
.VL 1i
.LI "[ENOSYS]"
The requested operation is not supported by this implementation.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lexec\*O(2),
\*Lexit\*O(2),
\*Lfork\*O(2),
\*Lshmctl\*O(2),
\*Lshmdt\*O(2),
\*Lshmget\*O(2)
.PP
Data structures:
\*Lshmid_ds\*O(4)
.iX "shmat function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
