.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: shmctl.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 18:26:14 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH shmctl 2
.SH NAME
\*Lshmctl\*O \- Performs shared memory control operations
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/types.h\*O>\*L
.nL
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/ipc.h\*O>\*L
.nL
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/shm.h\*O>\*L
.nL
\*Lint shmctl\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lint\*O \*Vshmid\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lint\*O \*Vcmd\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lstruct shmid_ds\*O \*V*buf\*O);\*L
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vshmid\*O"
Specifies the ID of the shared memory region.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vcmd\*O" 
Specifies the type of command.  The possible
commands and the operations they perform are as follows:
.wH .RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.\"from TP .5i"  
.VL
.LI "IPC_STAT" 
Queries the shared memory region ID by copying the contents of its associated
\*Lshmid_ds\*O
data structure into the
\*Vbuf\*O
structure.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "IPC_SET" 
Sets the shared memory region ID by copying values found in the
\*Vbuf\*O
structure into corresponding fields in the
\*Lshmid_ds\*O
structure associated with the
shared memory region ID.  This is a restricted operation.  The
effective user ID of the
calling process must be equal to that of superuser or equal
to the value of
\*Vshm_perm.cuid\*O
or
\*Vshm_perm.uid\*O
in the associated
\*Lshmid_ds\*O
structure.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "IPC_RMID" 
Removes the shared memory region ID and deallocates its
associated
\*Lshmid_ds\*O
structure.  This is a restricted operation.  The effective user ID of the
calling process must be equal to that of superuser or equal
to the value of
\*Vshm_perm.cuid\*O
or
\*Vshm_perm.uid\*O
in the associated
\*Lshmid_ds\*O
structure.
.wH .RE
.\"from TP "  
.LE
.LI "\*Vbuf\*O" 
Specifies the address of a
\*Lshmid_ds\*O
structure.  This structure is used only with the
IPC_STAT and IPC_SET commands.  With IPC_STAT, the results of the
query are copied to this structure.  With IPC_SET, the values in this
structure are used to set the corresponding fields in the
\*Lshmid_ds\*O
structure associated with the shared memory region ID.  In either case, the
calling process must have allocated the structure before
making the call.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "shmctl function"
.iX "shared memory" "performing control operations"
.iX "shared memory" "control operations"
.iX "process" "performing shared memory control operations"
.PP
The
\*Lshmctl()\*O
function allows a process to query or set the contents of the
\*Lshmid_ds\*O
structure associated with the specified shared memory region ID.  It
also allows a process to remove the shared memory region's ID and its
associated
\*Lshmid_ds\*O
structure.  The
\*Vcmd\*O
value determines which operation is performed.
.PP
The IPC_SET command uses the user-supplied contents of the
\*Vbuf\*O
structure to set corresponding fields in the
\*Lshmid_ds\*O
structure associated with the shared memory region ID.
The fields are set as follows:
.\"from TP 4"  
.ML
.LI
The \*Vshm_perm.uid\*O field
is set to the owner's user ID.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The \*Vshm_perm.gid\*O field
is set to the owner's group ID.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The \*Vshm_perm.mode\*O field
is set to the access modes for the shared memory region.  Only the low-order nine bits are
set.
.LE 
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. If the \*Lshmctl()\*O
function fails, a value of -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If the \*Lshmctl()\*O function fails, \*Lerrno\*O may be set to one or
more of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vshmid\*O parameter
does not specify a valid shared memory region ID, or
\*Vcmd\*O
is not a valid command.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EACCES]" 
The \*Vcmd\*O parameter
is IPC_STAT, but the calling process does not have
read permission.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EPERM]" 
The \*Vcmd\*O parameter is equal to either IPC_RMID or IPC_SET,
and the calling process does not have
appropriate privilege.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EFAULT]" 
The \*Vcmd\*O
parameter is IPC_STAT or IPC_SET.  An error occurred in accessing the
\*Vbuf\*O
structure.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lshmat\*O(2),
\*Lshmdt\*O(2),
\*Lshmget\*O(2)
.PP
Data structures:
\*Lshmid_ds\*O(4)
.iX "shmctl function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
