.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: shmdt.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 14:47:36 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH shmdt 2
.SH NAME
\*Lshmdt\*O \- Detaches a shared memory region
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/types.h\*O>\*L
.nL
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/ipc.h\*O>\*L
.nL
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/shm.h\*O>\*L
.nL
\*Lint shmdt\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lcaddr_t \*V*addr\*O);\*L
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vaddr\*O"
Specifies the starting virtual address for the shared memory region to be
detached.  This is the address returned by a previous
\*Lshmat(\|)\*O
call.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "shmdt function"
.iX "shared memory" "detaching"
The
\*Lshmdt()\*O
function detaches the shared memory region at the address specified by the
\*Vaddr\*O parameter.
Other instances of the region attached at other addresses are
unaffected.
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the \*Lshmdt(\|)\*O function returns 0
(zero).  Upon failure, -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If the \*Lshmdt()\*O function fails, the shared memory segment
is not detached and \*Lerrno\*O may be set to the following value:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vaddr\*O
parameter does not specify the starting address of a shared memory region.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lshmat\*O(2),
\*Lshmctl\*O(2),
\*Lshmget\*O(2)
.PP
Data structures:
\*Lshmid_ds\*O(4)
.iX "shmdt function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
