.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: shmget.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 18:27:20 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH shmget 2
.SH NAME
\*Lshmget\*O \- Returns (and possibly creates) the ID for a shared memory region
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/types.h\*O>\*L
.nL
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/ipc.h\*O>\*L
.nL
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/shm.h\*O>\*L
.nL
\*Lint shmget\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lkey_t\*O \*Vkey\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lu_int\*O \*Vsize\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lu_int\*O \*Vflags\*O);\*L
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*Vkey\*O"
Specifies the key that identifies the shared memory region.  The
IPC_PRIVATE key can
be used to assure the return of a new, unused, shared memory region.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vsize\*O"
Specifies the minimum number of bytes to allocate for the region.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vflags\*O"
Specifies the creation flags.  Possible values are:
.\" .wH \&.RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.\"from TP .5i"  
.\" .rS
.VL
.LI "IPC_CREAT"
If the key does not
exist, the
\*Lshmget(\|)\*O function
creates a shared memory region using the given key.  If the key
does exist, it forces an error notification.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "IPC_EXCL"
If the key already exists, the
\*Lshmget(\|)\*O function
fails and returns an error notification.
.\" .wH \&.RE
.\"from TP 1i"  
.\" .rE
.LE
.sp
The low-order nine bits of
\*Vshm_perm.mode\*O
are set equal to the low-order
nine bits of
\*Vflags\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "shmget function"
.iX "shared memory" "returning and creating ID"
.iX "shared memory" "ID"
.PP
The
\*Lshmget()\*O
function returns (and possibly creates) the ID for the shared memory
region identified by the
\*Vkey\*O parameter.
If IPC_PRIVATE is used for the
\*Vkey\*O parameter, the
\*Lshmget(\|)\*O function
returns the ID for a private (that is, newly created) shared memory
region.
The \*Vflags\*O parameter
supplies creation options for the
\*Lshmget(\|)\*O function.
If the
\*Vkey\*O parameter
does not already exist, the IPC_CREAT flag instructs the
\*Lshmget(\|)\*O function
to create a new shared memory region for the key and return the
kernel-assigned ID
for the region.
.PP
After creating a new shared memory region ID, the
\*Lshmget(\|)\*O function
initializes the
\*Lshmid_ds\*O
structure associated with the ID as follows:
.\"from TP 4"  
.ML
.LI
The \*Vshm_perm.cuid\*O
and
\*Vshm_perm.uid\*O fields
are set equal to the effective user ID
of the calling process.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The \*Vshm_perm.cgid\*O
and
\*Vshm_perm.gid\*O fields
are set equal to the
effective group ID of the calling process.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The low-order nine bits of
the \*Vshm_perm.mode\*O field
are set equal to the low-order nine bits of
\*Vflags\*O.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The \*Vshm_segsz\*O field
is set equal to
\*Vsize\*O.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The \*Vshm_lpid\*O,
\*Vshm_nattch\*O,
\*Vshm_atime\*O,
and
\*Vshm_dtime\*O fields
are all set equal to 0 (zero).
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The \*Vshm_ctime\*O field
is set equal to the current time.
.\"from TP "  
.LI
The \*Vshm_cpid\*O field
is set to the process ID of the calling process.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, a shared memory identifier is returned.
If the \*Lshmget()\*O function fails, a value of -1 is returned
and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lshmget()\*O function fails, \*Lerrno\*O may be set to one of
the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The value of the
\*Vsize\*O parameter
is less than the system-defined minimum or greater than
the system-defined maximum.  Or, a shared memory region ID already
exists for the
\*Vkey\*O parameter,
but the number of bytes allocated for the region
is less than
\*Vsize\*O
and
\*Vsize\*O
is not equal to 0 (zero).
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EACCES]"
A shared memory region ID already exists for the
\*Vkey\*O parameter,
but operation
permission as specified by the low-order nine bits of the
\*Vflags\*O parameter
was not granted.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOENT]"
A shared memory region ID does not exist for the
\*Vkey\*O parameter,
and IPC_CREAT was used for the
\*Vflags\*O parameter.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOSPC]"
An attempt to create a new shared memory region ID exceeded the system-wide
limit on the maximum number of IDs allowed.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOMEM]"
An attempt was made to create a shared memory region ID and its
associated
\*Lshmid_ds\*O
structure, but there was not enough physical memory available.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EEXIST]"
A shared memory region ID already exists for the
\*Vkey\*O parameter,
but IPC_CREAT and IPC_EXCL were used for the
\*Vflags\*O parameter.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lshmat\*O(2),
\*Lshmctl\*O(2),
\*Lshmdt\*O(2)
.PP
Data structures:
\*Lshmid_ds\*O(4)
.iX "shmget function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
