.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: shutdown.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 14:48:16 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH shutdown 2
.SH NAME
\*Lshutdown\*O \- Shuts down socket send and receive operations
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
.sp .4v
\*Lint shutdown\*O (\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vsocket\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vhow \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vsocket"
\*OSpecifies the file descriptor of the socket.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vhow" 
\*OSpecifies
the type of shutdown.  Values are:
.wH .RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.\"from TP .5i"  
.VL
.LI "\*O0" 
\*OTo disable further receive operations
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*O1" 
\*OTo disable further send operations
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*O2" 
\*OTo disable further send operations and receive operations
.wH .RE
.LE
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "shutdown function"
.iX "socket" "disabling receive and send operations"
.iX "socket" "receive and send operations"
.PP 
The \*Lshutdown(\|)\*O function disables
receive and/or
send operations on the
specified socket.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned.
Otherwise,
a value of -1 is returned
and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the \*Lshutdown(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EBADF]"
The \*Vsocket\*O parameter is not valid.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOTSOCK]" 
The \*Vsocket\*O parameter refers to a file,
not a socket.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lgetsockopt\*O(2),
\*Lread\*O(2),
\*Lrecv\*O(2),
\*Lrecvfrom\*O(2),
\*Lrecvmsg\*O(2),
\*Lselect\*O(2),
\*Lsend\*O(2),
\*Lsendto\*O(2),
\*Lsetsockopt\*O(2),
\*Lsocket\*O(2),
\*Lwrite\*O(2)
.iX "shutdown function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
