.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sigblock.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 14:48:59 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH sigblock 2
.SH NAME
\*Lsigblock\*O \- Provides a compatibility interface to the \*Lsigprocmask\*O function
.SH LIBRARY
\*OStandard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lint sigblock(\*O
.nL
\*Lint \*Vmask \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vmask"
\*OSpecifies the signals to be added to the set
of signals currently being blocked from delivery.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "sigblock function"
.iX "compatibility" "with other UNIX systems"
.iX "interface" "to the sigprocmask function"
.iX "signal" "adding to set of blocked signals"
.iX "signal" "blocked"
.PP 
The \*Lsigblock(\|)\*O function causes the signals specified
by the \*Vmask\*O parameter to be added to the set of signals currently
being blocked from delivery. The signals are blocked from delivery
by logically ORing the \*Vmask\*O parameter into the signal mask
of the process.  Signal \*Vi\*O is blocked if the \%\*Vi\*O-th
bit in the \*Vmask\*O parameter is a value of 1. Only signals with
values 1-31 can be masked with the \*Lsigblock(\|)\*O function.
.SH NOTES
.PP 
It is not possible to block SIGKILL. The system provides
no indication of this restriction.
.PP 
\*OThe \*Lsigblock(\|)\*O function is provided for compatibility
to other UNIX systems. Its function is a subset of the \*Lsigprocmask(\|)\*O
function.
.SH RETURN VALUES
\*OOn completion, the previous set of masked signals is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lkill\*O(2),
\*Lsigaction\*O(2),
\*Lsigpause\*O(3),
\*Lsigprocmask\*O(2),
\*Lsigsuspend\*O(2),
\*Lsigvec\*O(2)
.iX "sigblock function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
