.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: signal.2,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/08 15:47:48 $
.\"
.TH signal 2
.SH NAME
\*Lsignal\*O \- Modifies signal functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <signal.h>
.nL
void (*signal (
.nL
	int \*Vsig\*L,
.nL
	void (\*V*function\*O) (\*Lint\*O))) (\*Lint\*O);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vsig"
\*ODefines the signal.  All signals are valid with the exception of
SIGKILL and SIGSTOP.
.LI "\*Lfunction\*O"
Specifies the address of a signal handler.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "signal function"
.iX "signal" "taking action upon receipt"
.iX "process" "examining and changing actions"
.iX "process" "receiving signals"
.PP
The \*Lsignal\*O function provides compatibility for older versions of the
operating system whose function is a subset of the \*Lsigaction\*O function.
The \*Lsignal\*O function sets the action associated with a signal.
The \*Vfunction\*O parameter uses the values SIG_DFS, SIG_IGN, or it can
point to a address of a signal handler.  A SIG_DFL value specifies the
default action that is to be taken when the signal is delivered.  A value
of SIG_IGN specifies that the signal has no effect on the receiving process.
A pointer to a function requests that the signal be caught;
that is, the signal should cause the function to be called. These actions
are more fully described in the \*Lsignal.h\*O file.
.PP
The effect of calling the \*Lsignal\*O function behavior differs
depending on whether the calling program is linked with either of the special
libraries, \*Llibbsd\*O or \*Llibsys5\*O, which supplies BSD or
System V signalling characteristics respectively. If neither
library is used, the behavior is the same as that of the \*Lsigaction\*O
function with all the flags set to zero (0).  If the \*Llibbsd\*O is used
(through compilation with the \*L-lsys5\*O switch), then the specified
signal is not blocked from delivery when the handler is entered, and the
disposition of the signal reverts to SIG_DFL when the signal is delivered.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion of the \*Lsignal\*O function, the value of the
previous signal action is returned.  If the call fails, a value of -1 is
returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:
\*Lkill\*O(1).
.PP
Functions:
\*Lacct\*O(2),
\*Lexit\*O(2),
\*Lkill\*O(2),
\*Lpause\*O(3),
\*Lptrace\*O(2),
\*Lsetjmp\*O(3),
\*Lsigaction\*O(2),
\*Lsigblock\*O(2),
\*Lsigpause\*O(3),
\*Lsigprocmask\*O(2),
\*Lsigstack\*O(2),
\*Lsigsuspend\*O(2),
\*Lsigvec\*O(2),
\*Lumask\*O(2),
\*Lwait\*O(2).
.PP
Files:
\*Lsignal\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
