.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sigpending.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 14:49:21 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH sigpending 2
.SH NAME
\*Lsigpending\*O \- Examines pending signals
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <signal.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint sigpending (\*O
.nL
	\*Lsigset_t *\*Vset\*O );\*L
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vset\*O"
Points to a
\*Lsigset_t\*O
structure.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "sigpending function"
.iX "signal" "examining pending"
.iX "signal" "blocked"
.PP
The
\*Lsigpending(\|)\*O
function stores the set of signals that are blocked from
delivery and pending to the calling process in the object
pointed to by the
\*Vset\*O
parameter.
.PP 
Applications should call either the
\*Lsigemptyset(\|)\*O
or the
\*Lsigfillset(\|)\*O
function
at least once for each object of type
\*Lsigset_t\*O
prior to any other
use of that object. If such an object is not initialized in this way,
but is nonetheless supplied as an argument to the
\*Lsigpending(\|)\*O
function,
the results are undefined.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lsigpending(\|)\*O
function
returns a value of 0 (zero).  Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned
and \*Lerrno\*O is set to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If the
\*Lsigpending(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to the following value:
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The
\*Vset\*O
parameter points to a location outside the allocated address space of
the process.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lsigemptyset\*O(3),
\*Lsigprocmask\*O(2)
.PP 
Files:
\*Lsignal\*O(4)
.iX "sigpending function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
