.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sigreturn.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 14:50:00 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" 
.\" @(#)sigreturn.2	6.2 (Berkeley) 6/30/85
.\" 
.TH sigreturn 2
.SH NAME
\*Lsigreturn\*O \- Returns from signal
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsignal.h\*O>\*L
.sp .4v
\*Lint sigreturn\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lstruct sigcontext\*O *\*Vscp\*O) ;\*L
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vscp\*O"
Points to a \*Lsigcontext\*O structure whose members contain
the processor state to be restored. The contents of the \*Lsigcontext\*O
structure should have been previously obtained by entry to a signal
handler or by the \*Lsetjmp(\|)\*O or \*Lsigsetjmp(\|)\*O function.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "sigreturn function"
.iX "signal" "returning from"
.iX "process" "restoring processor state"
The \*Lsigreturn(\|)\*O function restores the processor state of the
calling process from a \*Lsigcontext\*O structure. The \*Lsigcontext\*O
structure contains the state of all application-visible registers as well
as the signal mask. The specific members of the \*Lsigcontext\*O structure
depend on the machine architecture. Each machine-dependent structure member
is defined in the \*Lsignal.h\*O include file.
.PP 
The \*Lsigreturn(\|)\*O function is used internally by the system software
to restore the processor state on return from a signal handler and from a
\*Llongjmp(\|)\*O function, to restore the state saved by a previous
\*Lsetjmp(\|)\*O or \*Lsigsetjmp(\|)\*O function.
.SH NOTES
An application should only use \*Lsigreturn(\|)\*O with great caution.
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the \*Lsigreturn(\|)\*O function
does not return.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O may be set to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
If the
\*Lsigreturn(\|)\*O
function fails, the process context remains unchanged and
\*Lerrno\*O
is set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The \*Vscp\*O parameter points to memory space that is not a valid part of the
process address space.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EINVAL]" 
The \*Lsigcontext\*O structure contains unsupported or illegal values.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lsetjmp\*O(3),
\*Lsigaction\*O(2),
\*Lsigvec\*O(2)
.iX "sigreturn function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
