.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sigsend.2,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 23:37:35 $
.\"
.TH sigsend 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsigsend\*O, \*Lsigsendset\*O \- Send a signal to one or more processes
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>\*O
.PP
\*L#include <sys/signal.h>\*O
.PP
\*L#include <sys/procset.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint sigsend (
.nL
	idtype_t \*Vidtype\*L,
.nL
	id_t \*Vid\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vsig\*O );
.PP
\*Lint sigsendset (
.nL
	const procset_t *\*Vpsetp\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vsig\*L );
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vid\*O"
Specifies a process or group of processes to which a signal is sent.
.LI "\*Vidtype\*O"
Specifies how the \*Vid\*O parameter is to be interpreted.
.LI "\*Vsig\*O"
Specifies the signal to be sent.
.LI "\*Vpsetp\*O"
Points to a \*Lprocset_t\*O structure that defines a set of processes.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "sigsend function"
.iX "sigsendset function"
.iX "send a signal to a group of processes"
The \*Lsigsend\*O function sends a signal to a group of processes
specified by the \*Vid\*O and \*Vidtype\*O parameters.
The \*Vsig\*O parameter specifies the signal
to be sent.  It contains either a valid signal or a zero (0),
which indicates that no signal is to be sent, though the usual error
checking will still be performed.
.PP
To send the signal, the real or effective user IDs of the sending process
must match those of the receiving process, unless the sending process
has appropriate privileges, or the \*Vsig\*O parameter is SIGCONT and the
receiving process is in the same session as the sender.
.PP
The \*Vid\*O and the \*Vidtype\*O parameters together select the
target process(es) according to the following rules:
.ML
.LI
If the \*Vidtype\*O parameter is set to P_PID, the target process is
the process whose process ID is equal to (\*Lpid_t\*O)\*Vid\*O.
.LI
If the \*Vidtype\*O parameter is set to P_GID, the target processes are
those whose effective group ID is equal to (\*Lgid_t\*O)\*Vid\*O.
.LI
If the \*Vidtype\*O parameter is set to P_UID, the target processes are
those whose effective user ID is equal to (\*Luid_t\*O)\*Vid\*O.
.LI
If the \*Vidtype\*O parameter is set to P_PGID, the target processes are
those whose process group ID is equal to (\*Lpid_t\*O)\*Vid\*O.
.LI
If the \*Vidtype\*O parameter is set to P_SID, the target processes are
those whose session ID is equal to (\*Lpid_t\*O)\*Vid\*O.
.LI
If the \*Vidtype\*O parameter is set to P_CID, \*Vsig\*O is sent to any
process whose scheduling class ID is equal to \*Vid\*O.
.LI
If the \*Vidtype\*O parameter is set to P_ALL, all eligible processes
are targets of this operation, and \*Vid\*O is ignored.
.LI
If the \*Vid\*O parameter is set to P_MYID, the value used for
\*Vid\*O is taken from the calling process.
.LE
.PP
The process having a process ID of (\*Lpid_t\*O)0 is never a target, and the
process with a process ID of (\*Lpid_t\*O)1 is targeted only if
the \*Vidtype\*O parameter is equal to P_PID.  In addition,
certain system processes may not be signalled.
.PP
The \*Lsigsendset\*O function allows sending to a set of processes
that is constructed by a boolean logic operation performed on two
sets of potential target processes defined as described above for
\*Lsigsend\*O.
.PP
For the \*Lsigsendset\*O function, the \*Vpsetp\*O parameter points
the \*Lprocset_t\*O structure.  This structure is described in detail on the
\*Lprocset\*O(4) reference page.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, both functions return the value zero (0).
Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned, and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occur, the \*Lsigsend\*O
or \*Lsigsendset\*O function sets \*Lerrno\*O to
the corresponding value:
.VL
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The value specified by the \*Vidtype\*O parameter is not valid.
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The value specified by the \*Vsig\*O parameter is not zero and is not
a valid signal.
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vsig\*O parameter is set to SIGKILL, the \*Vidtype\*O parameter is set to P_PID, and the
\*Vid\*O parameter is set to the process ID of a special system process.
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vid\*O parameter specifies
the process ID of a special system process.
.LI "[EINVAL]"
Either the \*Vid\*O parameter of the \*Lsigsend\*O function, or the
\*Lp_lid\*O or \*Lp_rid\*O members of the structure pointed at by the
\*Vpsetp\*O parameter for the
\*Lsigsendset\*O function are out-of-range.
.LI "[EPERM]"
The calling process lacks sufficient privilege, the real or effective user
IDs do not match, and this invocation is not sending SIGCONT to a process in
the same session.
.LI "[ESRCH]"
The processes specified by the \*Vid\*O and \*Vidtype\*O, or the \*Lpsetp\*O
parameters do not exist.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lkill\*O(2), \*Lsetpgid\*O(2), \*Lsetsid\*O(2), \*Lsigaction\*O(2).
.PP
Routines: \*Lsigset\*O(3).
.PP
File Formats: \*Lprocset\*O(4), \*Lsignal\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
