.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sigsuspend.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 14:50:46 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH sigsuspend 2
.SH NAME
\*Lsigsuspend\*O \- Atomically changes the set of blocked signals and waits for a signal
.SH LIBRARY
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <signal.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint sigsuspend (\*O
.nL
	\*Lsigset_t *\*Vsignal_mask \*L);\*O
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vsignal_mask"
\*OPoints to a set of signals.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "sigsuspend function"
.iX "signal" "atomically changing set of blocked signals"
.iX "process" "replacing signal mask"
.iX "process" "suspending execution"
.iX "signal" "suspending process execution"
.PP 
The \*Lsigsuspend(\|)\*O function replaces the signal mask of
the process with the set of signals pointed to by the \*Vsignal_mask\*O
parameter, and then suspends execution of the process until delivery
of a signal whose action is either to execute a signal-catching function
or to terminate the process.  The \*Lsigsuspend(\|)\*O function does
not allow the SIGKILL or SIGSTOP signals to be
blocked.  If a program attempts to block one of these
signals, the \*Lsigsuspend(\|)\*O
function gives no indication of the error.
.PP 
If delivery of a signal causes the process to terminate, the
\*Lsigsuspend(\|)\*O
function does not return. If delivery of a signal causes a
signal-catching function to execute, the \*Lsigsuspend(\|)\*O function
returns after the signal-catching function returns, with the signal
mask restored to the set that existed prior to the call to
the \*Lsigsuspend(\|)\*O
function.
.PP 
The \*Lsigsuspend(\|)\*O function sets the signal mask and waits
for an unblocked signal as one atomic operation. This means that signals
cannot occur between the operations of setting the mask and waiting
for a signal.  If a program invokes \*Lsigprocmask(SIG_SETMASK)\*O
and \*Lsigpause(\|)\*O separately, a signal that occurs between these
functions might not be noticed by \*Lsigpause(\|)\*O.
.PP 
In normal usage, a signal is blocked by using
the \*Lsigprocmask(SIG_BLOCK,...)\*O
function at the beginning of a critical section. The
process then determines whether there is work for it to do. If no
work is to be done, the process waits for work by calling the
\*Lsigsuspend(\|)\*O function
with the mask previously returned by the \*Lsigprocmask(\|)\*O function.
.SH NOTES
.PP 
The \*Lsigpause(\|)\*O function is provided for compatibility
with older UNIX systems; its function is a subset of the \*Lsigsuspend(\|)\*O
function.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
If a signal is caught by the calling process and control is returned
from the signal handler, the calling process resumes
execution after the \*Lsigsuspend(\|)\*O function, which always return
a value of -1
and sets \*Lerrno\*O to [EINTR].\c
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lpause\*O(3),
\*Lsigaction\*O(2),
\*Lsigblock\*O(2),
\*Lsigprocmask\*O(2),
\*Lsigvec\*O(2)
.iX "sigsuspend function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
