.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: socket.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/29 20:13:12 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
.\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail 
.\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH socket 2
.SH NAME
\*Lsocket\*O \- Creates an end point for communication and returns a descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.sp .4v
\*L#include <sys/socket.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint socket\*O  (\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vaddr_family\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vtype\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vprotocol \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vaddr_family"
\*OSpecifies
an address family with which addresses specified in later socket operations
should be interpreted.  The \*Lsys/socket.h\*O file contains the
definitions of the address families.  Commonly used families are:
.wH .RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.VL
.LI "AF_UNIX"
UNIX pathnames
.LI "AF_INET"
ARPA Internet addresses
.LI "AF_NS"
Xerox Network Software addresses
.wH .RE
.LE
.LI "\*Vtype"
\*OSpecifies the semantics of communication. The
\*Lsys/socket.h\*O file defines
the socket types.  The following types are supported:
.wH .RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.VL
.LI "SOCK_STREAM"
Provides sequenced, reliable, two-way byte streams
with a transmission mechanism for
\*Oout-of-band data.
.LI "SOCK_DGRAM"
Provides datagrams, which are connectionless
messages of a fixed maximum length.
.LI "SOCK_RAW"
Provides access to internal network protocols
and interfaces. This type of socket is available only to a process
with
superuser
privilege.
.wH .RE
.LE
.LI "\*Vprotocol"
\*OSpecifies
a particular protocol to be used with the socket.  Specifying a
\*Vprotocol\*O of 0 (zero) causes the \*Lsocket(\|)\*O function to
default to the typical protocol for the requested type of returned
socket.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "socket function"
.iX "socket" "creating end points"
.iX "socket" "creating"
.iX "protocol" "supporting sockets"
.PP
The \*Lsocket(\|)\*O function creates a socket of the
specified
\*Vtype\*O
in the specified
\*Vaddr_family\*O.
.PP
The \*Lsocket(\|)\*O function returns a descriptor (an integer)
that can be used in later system calls that operate on sockets.
.PP
Socket level options control socket operations. The
\*Lgetsockopt(\|)\*O and
\*Lsetsockopt(\|)\*O functions
are used to get and set these options, which are defined in the\*L
sys/socket.h\*O file.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lsocket(\|)\*O function returns
a nonnegative integer (the socket descriptor).
Otherwise,
a value of -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lsocket(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.VL 1i
.LI "[EAFNOSUPPORT]"
The addresses in the specified address family
are not available in the kernel.
.LI "[EPROTONOSUPPORT]"
The socket in the specified address family
is not supported.
.LI "[EMFILE]"
The per-process
descriptor table is full.
.LI "[ENOBUFS]"
Insufficient resources were available in the
system to complete the call.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note.
.LI "[ENOMEM]"
The system was unable to allocate kernel memory to increase
the process descriptor table.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "[EPERM]"
The process is attempting to open a raw socket and does not have
superuser
privilege.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Laccept\*O(2),
\*Lbind\*O(2),
\*Lconnect\*O(2),
\*Llisten\*O(2),
\*Lgetsockname\*O(2),
\*Lgetsockopt\*O(2),
\*Lrecv\*O(2),
\*Lrecvfrom\*O(2),
\*Lrecvmsg\*O(2),
\*Lsend\*O(2),
\*Lsendto\*O(2),
\*Lsendmsg\*O(2),
\*Lsetsockopt\*O(2),
\*Lshutdown\*O(2),
\*Lsocketpair\*O(2)
.iX "socket function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
