.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @OSF_COPYRIGHT@
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" NOTE TO MAINTAINERS: Error codes for statfs and for statvfs
.\" should in general remain parallel.  When changing any aspect of
.\" either, check the other, as well.
.\"
.TH statvfs 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lstatvfs\*O, \*Lfstatvfs\*O \- Gets file system information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/statvfs.h>\*O
.br
\*L#include <sys/types.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint statvfs (
.nL
	const char *\*Vpath\*L,
.nL
	struct statvfs *\*Vbuffer\*L );
.sp .4v
\*Lint fstatvfs (
.nL
	int \*Vfile_descriptor\*L,
.nL
	struct statvfs *\*Vbuffer\*L );
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vpath\*O"
Specifies any file within the mounted file system.
.LI "\*Vfildes\*O"
Specifies a file descriptor obtained by a successful \*Lopen(\|)\*O or
\*Lfcntl(\|)\*O function.
.LI "\*Vbuffer\*O"
Points to a statvfs buffer to hold the returned information for the
\*Lstatvfs(\|)\*O or \*Lfstatvfs(\|)\*O function.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "statvfs function"
.iX "fstatvfs function"
.iX "get file system information"
.iX "file system information"
The \*Lstatvfs(\|)\*O and \*Lfstatvfs(\|)\*O functions return descriptive
information about a mounted file system
The returned information is
in the format of a \*Lstatvfs\*O structure, which is defined in the
\*Lsys/statvfs.h\*O header file.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, either function returns 0 (zero).  Otherwise,
it returns -1, sets \*Lerrno\*O to indicate the error.
If the \*Lstatvfs(\|)\*O function fails, \*Lerrno\*O may be set to one of
the following values:
.VL
.LI "[EACCES]"
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix
.LI "[ENOTDIR]"
A component of the path prefix of the \*Vpath\*O parameter is not a directory.
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]"
The length of a component of the path parameter
exceeds NAME_MAX characters, or the length of the path
parameter exceeds PATH_MAX characters.
.LI "[ENOENT]"
The file referred to by the \*Vpath\*O parameter does not exist.
of the \*Vpath\*O parameter.
.LI "[ELOOP]"
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the \*Vpath\*O
parameter detected.
.LE
.PP
If the \*Lfstatvfs(\|)\*O function fails, \*Lerrno\*O may be set to
the following value:
.VL
.LI "[EBADF]"
The file descriptor parameter is not a valid file descriptor.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lstat\*O(2)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
