.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: stat.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 22:49:52 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"
.TH stat 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lstat\*O, \*Lfstat\*O, \*Llstat\*O \- Provides information about a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.sp .4v
\*L#include <sys/stat.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint stat\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char\*O *\*Vpath\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lstruct stat *\*Vbuffer \*L);\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint lstat\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char\*O *\*Vpath\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lstruct stat *\*Vbuffer \*L);\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint fstat\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vfiledes\*L,
.nL
	struct stat *\*Vbuffer \*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vpath\*O"
Specifies the pathname identifying the file.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vfiledes\*O"
Specifies the file descriptor identifying the open
file.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vbuffer\*O"
Points to the \*Lstat\*O structure in which
information is returned. The \*Lstat\*O structure is described
in the \*Lsys/stat.h\*O header file.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "stat function"
.iX "fstat function"
.iX "lstat function"
.iX "file" "providing information about"
.iX "file" "providing information about an open file"
.iX "file" "providing information about, including links"
.iX "link" "providing information about symbolic links"
The \*Lstat(\|)\*O function obtains information about the file named
by the \*Vpath\*O parameter. Read, write, or execute permission for the
named file is not required, but all directories listed in the
pathname leading to the file must be searchable.
The file information
is written to the
area specified by the \*Vbuffer\*O parameter,
which is a pointer to a \*Lstat\*O structure,
defined in
\*Lsys/stat.h\*O.
.PP
The \*Lfstat(\|)\*O function is like the \*Lstat(\|)\*O function except that
the information obtained is about an open file referenced by the \*Vfiledes\*O
parameter.
.PP
The \*Llstat(\|)\*O function is like the \*Lstat(\|)\*O function except in
the case where the named file is a symbolic link.  In this case, the
\*Llstat(\|)\*O function returns information about the link, while
the \*Lstat(\|)\*O and
\*Lfstat(\|)\*O
functions return information about the file the link references.
In the case of a symbolic link, the
\*Lstat(\|)\*O
functions set the
\*Lst_size\*O
field of the
\*Lstat\*O
structure to the length of the symbolic link, and sets the
\*Lst_mode\*O
field to indicate the file type.
.PP
The
\*Lstat(\|)\*O,
\*Llstat(\|) ,\*O
and
\*Lfstat(\|)\*O
functions update any time-related fields
associated with the file
before writing into the
\*Lstat\*O
structure.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use (\*Lstat(\|)\*O, \*Lfstat(\|)\*O)
.IP
Trial use (\*Llstat(\|)\*O)
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. Otherwise,
a value of -1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is
set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lstat(\|)\*O or
\*Llstat(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[ENOENT]"
The file named by the \*Vpath\*O parameter does not exist or is an
empty string.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[ELOOP]"
Too many links were encountered in translating
\*Vpath\*O.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]"
The length of the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter exceeds
PATH_MAX
or a pathname component is longer than
NAME_MAX.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EACCES]"
Search permission is denied for a component of the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOTDIR]"
A component of the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter is not a directory.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EFAULT]"
Either the \*Vbuffer\*O parameter or the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter points to a location
outside of the allocated address space of the process.
.LE
.PP
If the \*Lfstat(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EBADF]"
The
\*Vfiledes\*O parameter
is not a valid file descriptor.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The \*Vbuffer\*O parameter points to a location
outside of the allocated address space of the process.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lchmod\*O(2),
\*Lchown\*O(2),
\*Llink\*O(2),
\*Lmknod\*O(2),
\*Lmount\*O(3),
\*Lopen\*O(2),
\*Lpipe\*O(2),
\*Lsymlink\*O(2),
\*Lutime\*O(2)
.iX "stat function"
.iX "fstat function"
.iX "lstat function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
