.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: statfs.2,v $ $Revision: 3.3.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 22:53:41 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH statfs 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lstatfs\*O, \*Lfstatfs\*O, \*Lustat\*O \- Gets file system statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/mount.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint statfs(
.nL
	char *\*Vpath\*L,
.nL
	struct statfs *\*Vbuffer\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vlength \*L);
.sp .4v
\*Lint fstatfs(
.nL
	int \*Vfile_descriptor\*L,
.nL
	struct statfs *\*Vbuffer\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vlength \*L);\*O
.sp .4v
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.nL
#include <ustat.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint ustat(
.nL
	dev_t \*Vdevice,
.nL
	\*Lstruct ustat *\*Vbuffer \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*Vpath"
\*OSpecifies any file within the mounted file
system.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vfile_descriptor"
\*OSpecifies a file descriptor obtained by a successful
\*Lopen(\|)\*O or \*Lfcntl(\|)\*O function.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vbuffer"
\*OPoints to a \*Lstatfs\*O buffer to
hold the returned information for the \*Lstatfs(\|)\*O or
\*Lfstatfs(\|)\*O function;
points to a \*Lustat\*O buffer to hold the
returned information for the
\*Lustat(\|)\*O
function.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vlength"
\*OSpecifies the size of the buffer pointed to by the
\*Vbuffer\*O parameter.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vdevice"
\*OSpecifies the ID of the device. It corresponds to the
\*Lst_rdev\*O
member of the structure returned by the \*Lstat(\|)\*O function.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "statfs function"
.iX "fstatfs function"
.iX "ustatfs function"
.iX "file" "system statistics"
.iX "file system" "information about mounted"
The \*Lstatfs(\|)\*O and \*Lfstatfs(\|)\*O functions return information
about a mounted file system. The returned information is in the format
of a \*Lstatfs \*Ostructure.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" According to QAR 5430, sys/statfs.h doesn't exist any more.
.\" The following line is being commented out to fix the problem.
.\" defined in the \*Lsys/statfs.h\*O header file.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP
\*OThe \*Lustat(\|)\*O function also returns information about
a mounted file system. The returned information is in the format of
a \*Lustat\*O structure,
defined in the \*Lustat.h\*O header file. This function
is superseded by the \*Lstatfs(\|)\*O and \*Lfstatfs(\|)\*O functions.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, 0 (zero) is returned. Otherwise,
-1 is returned, and \*Lerrno\*O is
set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lstatfs(\|)\*O function
fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The \*Vbuffer\*O or \*Vpath\*O parameter points to a location
outside of the allocated address space of the process.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOTDIR]"
A component of the path prefix of the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter
is not a directory.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The
\*Vpath\*O
parameter
contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]"
The length of a component of the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter
exceeds NAME_MAX characters,
or the length of the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter
exceeds PATH_MAX characters.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOENT]"
The file referred to by the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter
does not exist.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EACCES]"
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix of the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ELOOP]"
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EIO]"
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.LE
.PP
If the \*Lfstatfs(\|)\*O or
\*Lustat(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EBADF]"
The \*Vfile_descriptor\*O parameter is not a
valid file descriptor.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EIO]"
An I/O error occurred while reading from the file
system.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The
\*Vbuffer\*O
parameter
points to an invalid address.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lstat\*O(2)
.iX "statfs function"
.iX "fstatfs function"
.iX "ustatfs function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
