.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: swapon.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/24 21:22:50 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" 
.\" @(#)swapon.2	6.4 (Berkeley) 3/9/86
.\" 
.TH swapon 2
.SH NAME
\*Lswapon\*O \- Adds a swap device for interleaved paging and swapping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lswapon(
.nL
	char *\*Vpath\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vflags\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vlowat\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vhiwat \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vpath\*O"
Specifies the
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" No swapping to files for DEC OSF/1 V1.2
.\" file or 
.\" End Digital-specific information
block special device to be made available.
.LI "\*Vflags\*O"
Specifies a flag.
Only the \*LMS_PREFER\*O flag is currently supported, and it causes
the specified \*Vpath\*O to be the preferred paging
.\" file or 
device.
.LI "\*Vlowat\*O"
Specifies the low water mark.
.LI "\*Vhiwat\*O"
Specifies the high water mark.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "swapon function"
.iX "device" "adding swap device for interleaved paging and swapping"
.iX "swapping" "adding device for"
.iX "paging" "adding device for interleaved paging"
.iX "device" "allocating paging and swapping space"
The
\*Lswapon(\|)\*O
function makes
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Commened out the following line per QAR 9413.
.\" a file or 
.\" End Digital-specific information
a block special device available to the system for
allocation of paging and swapping space.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Added this sentence per QAR 9413.
(The operating system does not currently
support paging and swapping to a
normal file.  All swapping and pages areas must be block special devices.)
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP
The
\*Vlowat\*O
and
\*Vhiwat\*O
parameters specify the low water and high water marks that the
paging file will float between.  If the low water mark is 0 (zero),
then the file will not shrink after paging space is freed.  If
the high water mark is 0 (zero), then the file will grow without
bounds.  These parameters are not used for swapping devices.
The size of the swap area on
the block special device
is calculated at the time the device is first made available
for swapping.
.PP
The calling process must have
superuser
privilege to call the
\*Lswapon(\|)\*O
function.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lswapon(\|)\*O
function returns a value of 0 (zero).
If an error has occurred, \-1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the
\*Lswapon(\|)\*O
function
fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.VL 1i
.LI "[ENOTDIR]"
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set,
the device was not specified,
the device configured by the \*Vpath\*O parameter was not
configured into the system as a swap device, or the device does not
allow paging.
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]"
A component of a pathname exceeded NAME_MAX characters,
or an entire pathname exceeded PATH_MAX characters.
.LI "[ENOENT]"
The named
.\" file or 
device does not exist.
.LI "[EACCES]"
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
.LI "[ELOOP]"
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.LI "[EPERM]"
The caller does not have appropriate privilege.
.LI "[EBUSY]"
The
.\" file or 
device specified by the \*Vpath\*O parameter has already
been made available for swapping.
.LI "[ENXIO]"
The major device number of the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter is out of range (this indicates no device driver exists
for the associated hardware).
.LI "[EIO]"
An I/O error occurred while opening the swap device.
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The
\*Vpath\*O
parameter
points outside the process' allocated address space.
.LI "[EROFS]"
An attempt was made to activate a paging file on a read-only file
system.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:
\*Lswapon\*O(8),
\*Lconfig\*O(8)
.iX "swapon function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
