.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sync.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/09/01 18:09:49 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH sync 2
.SH NAME
\*Lsync\*O \- Updates all file systems
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lvoid sync ( void );
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "sync function"
.iX "file system" "updating"
.PP
The \*Lsync(\|)\*O function causes all information in memory
that should be on disk to be written out. The writing, although scheduled,
is not necessarily complete upon return from the \*Lsync(\|)\*O function.  Types of information to be written include modified superblocks,
inodes, data blocks, and indirect blocks.
.PP
The \*Lsync(\|)\*O function should be used by programs that
examine a file system, such as the \*Ldf\*O command and the\*L
fsck \*Ocommand.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lfsync\*O(2)
.PP
Commands:
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Changed the manpage section to 8 per QAR 6152.  OSF R1.1 has the command
.\"    in section 8, so this change does not have to be carried over.
\*Lsync\*O(8)
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.EQ
delim off
.EN
