.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sysfs.2,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/22 07:41:28 $
.\"
.TH sysfs 2
.SH NAME
sysfs \- gather information about file system types
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/fstyp.h>\*O
.nL
\*L#include <sys/fsid.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint sysfs (
.nL
      int \*Vopcode\*L,
.nL
      const char \*V*fsname )\*O;
.PP
\*Lint sysfs (
.nL
      int \*Vopcode\*L,
.nL
      int \*Vfs_index\*L,
.nl
      char \*V*buf )\*O;
.PP
\*Lint sysfs (
.nL
      int \*Vopcode\*O );
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vbuf\*O"
Points to the buffer where the file system type is placed.
The buffer size must be equal to \*LFSTYPSZ\*O as defined
in \*L<sys/fstyp.h>\*O.
.LI "\*Vfs_index\*O"
Specifies an index file system type.
.LI "\*Vfsname\*O"
Specifies a null-terminated file system type identifier.
.LI "\*Vopcode\*O"
Specifies an operation used to obtain information about the
file system types.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function gathers information about configured file system types.
.iX "sysfs function"
Depending on the operation you want to perform,
the \*Vopcode\*O parameter may be specified by itself, or in
combination with the other available parameters as shown in the
SYNOPSIS section.
.PP
The \*Vopcode\*O parameter may be one of the following:
.VL
.LI "\*LGETFSIND\*O"
Must be specified with the \*Vfsname\*O parameter.  This operation
changes the specified null-terminated file system type identifier
to a file system type identifier.
.LI "\*LGETFSTYP\*O"
Must be specified with the parameters \*Vfs_index\*O and \*Vbuf\*O.
This operation changes the specified file system type index to a null-terminated
type file system type identifier and writes it into the buffer
specified.
.LI "\*LGETNFSTYP\*O"
Specified by itself, this operation requests the total number of
file system types configured in the system to be returned.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The following values are returned on success:
.ML
.LI
If \*LGETFSIND\*O is specified, the file system type index
is returned.
.LI
If \*LGETFSTYP\*O is specified, a value of zero (0) is returned.
.LI
If \*LGETNFSTYP\*O is specified, the number of file system types
configured in the system is returned.
.LE
.PP
On error, a value of -1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
One or more of the following may be returned on failure:
.VL
.LI "\*L[EINVAL]\*O"
Indicates an invalid file system identifier is pointed to \*Vfsname\*O,
the specified \*Vfs_index\*O is either zero (0) or invalid, or
the specified \*Vopcode\*O is invalid.
.LI "\*L[EFAULT]\*O"
Indicates that either \*Vfsname\*O or \*Vbuf\*O is pointing to
an invalid user address.
.LI "\*L[ENOSYS]\*O"
Indicates that a file system was installed with a name that exceeds
the buffer size of \*LFSTYPSZ\*O.
.LE
.EQ
delim off
.EN
