.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sysinfo.2,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/22 07:39:36 $
.\"
.TH sysinfo 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsysinfo\*O \- manages system information strings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/systeminfo.h>\*O
.PP
\*Llong sysinfo (
.nL
     int \*Vcommand\*L,
.nL
     char \*V*buf\*L,
.nL
     long \*Vcount\*L );\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vcommand\*O"
Specifies the commands that manage the system information strings.
They are described in the Available Commands section.
.LI "\*Vbuf\*O"
Specifies the buffer used for the storage of system information.
.LI "\*Vcount\*O"
Specifies the size of the buffer pointed to by the \*Vbuf\*O
parameter.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lsysinfo\*O function retrieves and sets information relating
.iX "sysinfo function"
.iX "uname function"
to the operating system into a buffer pointed to by the \*Vbuf\*O
parameter.  This function is similar to the \*Lsysconf\*O function
which returns an integer instead of a string.
.SS Available Commands
.if n .PP
This section describes the commands that may be specified with the
\*Vcommand\*O parameter.  The commands allow you to set certain
attributes and they are listed in alphabetical order:
.VL
.LI "\*LSI_ARCHITECTURE\*O"
Copies a string into the specified buffer that describes the
instruction set of the current system's architecture.  These
names cannot conflict with predefined names in the C language
compilation system.
.LI "\*LSI_HOSTNAME\*O"
Copies a string into the specified buffer that represents the name of
the present host machine.  This is the same string that would be
returned by the \*Luname\*O function in the \*Vnodename\*O field.
The name is typically the hostname or nodename that the machine
is recognized by locally.
.IP
The hostname is the name of the target machine as it is used in
a network.  Although the hostname may differ on various
networks, the nodename that is presented to the appropriate
network directory or name-to-address mapping service should produce
a transport end point address.  The name may not be fully
qualified.
.IP
Internet host names can be up to 256 bytes in length including
the terminating null.
.LI "\*LSI_HW_PROVIDER\*O"
Copies a string into the specified buffer that represents the
name of the hardware manufacturer.  This command is not supported
in this implementation of the operating system.
.LI "\*LSI_HW_SERIAL\*O"
Copies a string into the specified buffer the
ASCII representation of the hardware-specific serial number of the
machine that executed the function call.  This can be initiated
in Read Only Memory through the software constants set when the
machine is built.  The string can contain non-numeric characters.
This command is not supported in this implementation of the
operating system.
.LI "\*LSI_MACHINE\*O"
Copies a string into the specified buffer that represents the
name of the machine.  This is the same string that would be returned
by the \*Luname\*O function in the \*Vmachine\*O field.
.LI "\*LSI_RELEASE\*O"
Copies a string into the specified buffer that represents the
name of the release.  This is the same string that would be
returned by the \*Luname\*O function in the \*Vrelease\*O
field.
.LI "\*LSI_SET_HOSTNAME\*O"
Copies the null-terminated contents of the specified buffer
into the string that is maintained by the kernel.  This
value will be returned by successive calls to the \*Lsysinfo\*O
function when used with the \*LSI_HOSTNAME\*O command.
Superuser privileges are required to perform this action.
.LI "\*LSI_SET_SRPC_DOMAIN\*O"
Specifies that the string returned by the \*Lsysinfo\*O function
using the \*LSI_SRPC_DOMAIN\*O command is to be set to the
value of the array pointed to by the \*Lbuf\*O parameter.
This command is not supported in this implementation of the
operating system.
.LI "\*LSI_SET_SYSNAME\*O"
The command \*LSI_SET_SYSNAME\*O sets the system name.
It is not supported in this implementation of the operating
system.
.LI "\*LSI_SRPC_DOMAIN\*O"
Copies the Secure Remote Procedure Call command name into the
specified buffer. This command is not supported in this
implementation of the operating system.
.LI "\*LSI_SYSNAME\*O"
Copies a string into the specified buffer the value that would
be returned by the \*Luname\*O function in the \*Lsysname\*O
field.  This is the name of the implementation of the operating
system.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On success, the return value specifies the size in bytes
required for the buffer to hold the value and terminating
character of the string. If this value does not exceed the
value specified in the \*Vcount\*O parameter, the string is
copied.  If this value exceeds the value specified by the
\*Vcount\*O parameter, the string that is copied to the
specified buffer is truncated to the \*Vcount-1\*O bytes and
a terminating character.
.PP
If an error is encountered, a value of -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Two commands, \*LSI_SRPC_DOMAIN\*O and \*LSI_SET_SRPC_DOMAIN\*O,
are not currently supported.  If either of these commands is
specified, a value of -1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.VL
.LI "[EINVAL]"
Specifies that the \*Vbuf\*O parameter does not point to a valid
address, or that the data for a SET command is not allowed
in this implementation.
.LI "[ENOSYS]"
Specifies that an invalid command was specified.  See the
RESTRICTIONS section.
.LI "[EPERM]"
Specifies that the process does not have the appropriate
privileges for a SET command.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lgetrlimit\*O(2), \*Lsetrlimit\*O(2), \*Lsysconf\*O(2), \*Luname\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
