.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: truncate.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 22:59:35 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"
.TH truncate 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ltruncate\*O, \*Lftruncate\*O \- Changes file length
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint truncate (
.nL
	const char *\*Vpath\*L,
.nL
	off_t \*Vlength \*L);\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint ftruncate (
.nL
	int \*Vfiledes\*L,
.nL
	off_t \*Vlength \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vpath\*O"
Specifies the name of a file that is opened, truncated,
and then closed.  The
\*Vpath\*O
parameter must point to a pathname which names a regular file for which
the calling process has write permission.
If the
\*Vpath\*O parameter refers to a symbolic link, the
length of the file
pointed to by the symbolic link is truncated.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vfiledes\*O"
Specifies the descriptor of a file that must be
open for writing.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vlength\*O"
Specifies the new length of the file in bytes.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "truncate function"
.iX "ftruncate function"
.iX "file" "changing length of"
The \*Ltruncate(\|)\*O and \*Lftruncate(\|)\*O functions change the length
of a file to the size in bytes specified by the
\*Vlength\*O
parameter.
If the new length is less than the previous length,
the
\*Ltruncate(\|)\*O
and
\*Lftruncate(\|)\*O
functions remove
all data beyond \*Vlength\*O bytes from
the specified file.  All file data
between the new End-of-File and the previous End-of-File is discarded.
If the new length is greater than the previous length, new file data
between the previous End-of-File and the new End-of-File is
added, consisting of all zeros.
.PP
Full blocks are returned to the file system so that they can be
used again, and the file size is changed to the value
of the \*Vlength\*O parameter.
.PP
The
\*Ltruncate(\|)\*O
and
\*Lftruncate(\|)\*O
functions have no effect on FIFO special files or directories.
These functions do not modify the seek pointer of the file.
.PP
Upon successful completion, the
\*Ltruncate(\|)\*O
and
\*Lftruncate(\|)\*O
functions mark
the \*Lst_ctime\*O
and \*Lst_mtime\*O fields of the file for update.
If the file is a regular
file, the  \*Lftruncate(\|)\*O and \*Ltruncate(\|)\*O
functions clear the S_ISUID and S_ISGID
attributes of the file.
.PP
If the file has enforced file locking enabled and there are file locks
on the file, the
\*Ltruncate(\|)\*O
or
\*Lftruncate(\|)\*O
function fails.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Trial use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. If
the \*Ltruncate(\|)\*O or \*Lftruncate(\|)\*O function fails, it returns a
value of -1, and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Ltruncate(\|)\*O or \*Lftruncate(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The file is not a regular file.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.\".LI "[EISDIR]" 
.\"The file is a directory.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EAGAIN]"
The write operation failed due to an enforced
write lock on the file.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EACCES]"
Write access permission to the file was denied.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EFBIG]"
The new file size would exceed the process' file size limit or the
maximum file size.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EROFS]"
The file resides on a read-only file system.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EAGAIN]"
The file has enforced mode file locking enabled and there are file
locks on the file.
.LE
.PP
In addition, the
\*Ltruncate(\|)\*O
function fails if
errors occur that apply to any service
requiring pathname resolution,
or if one of the following are true:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]"
The size of the pathname exceeds PATH_MAX or a pathname
component is longer than NAME_MAX.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOENT]"
A component of the specified pathname does not exist,
or the \*Vpath\*O parameter points to an empty string.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOTDIR]"
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.LE
.PP
In addition, if the \*Lftruncate(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to the following value:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EBADF]"
The \*Vfiledes\*O parameter is not a valid file
descriptor open for writing.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lchmod\*O(2),
\*Lfcntl\*O(2),
\*Lopen\*O(2)
.iX "truncate function"
.iX "ftruncate function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
