.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: uadmin.2,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/22 07:53:33 $
.\"
.TH uadmin 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Luadmin\*O \- provides administrative control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/uadmin.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint uadmin (
.nL
       int \*Vcmd\*L,
.nL
       int \*Vfcn\*L,
.nL
       int \*Vmdep\*O );\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vcmd\*O"
Specifies the type of administrative action to be performed on the
system.
.LI "\*Vfcn\*O"
Specifies the type of action to perform after the system is shutdown
or stopped using \*LA_SHUTDOWN\*O or \*LA_REBOOT\*O.
.IP
The available actions are \*LAD_HALT\*O, \*LAD_BOOT\*O,
or \*LAD_IBOOT\*O.  These are described in more detail below.
.LI "\*Vmdep\*O"
Specifies machine-dependent use. It is currently not used and
is ignored if defined.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Luadmin\*O function enables control of some basic administrative
.iX "uadmin function"
functions.  Mostly, it is called by other system administrative
procedures which must perform automatic shutdowns, halts, and reboots
of the system.  Using this function as a general interface is not
recommended.
.PP
To perform a shutdown, halt, or reboot of the system, you must use
the \*Vcmd\*O parameter which specifies the function to be
performed. The values for the \*Vcmd\*O parameter are as follows:
.VL
.LI "\*LA_REBOOT\*O"
Signals that the system stop immediately without any further processing.
The operation to be performed next is specified by the \*Vfcn\*O
parameter.
.LI "\*LA_REMOUNT\*O"
Specifies a remount of the root file system after errors have been
resolved.  This command should only be used during the startup process.
For this release, this command is unsupported.  See the RESTRICTIONS
section for more information.
.LI "\*LA_SHUTDOWN\*O"
Specifies a systematic shutdown of the system by terminating all user
processes, flushing the buffer cache, and unmounting the root file
system.  The operation to be performed next must be specified by
the \*Vfcn\*O parameter.
.LE
.PP
The \*Vfcn\*O parameter specifies the operation that is to be
performed after the system has been shutdown or rebooted using the
\*LA_SHUTDOWN\*O or \*LA_REBOOT\*O commands.  The \*Vfcn\*O parameter
has the following values:
.VL
.LI "\*LAD_HALT\*O"
Halts the processor.  The machine is then in a state where power
can be turned off.
.LI "\*LAD_BOOT\*O"
Reboots the system in standalone mode using the default kernel.
.LI "\*LAD_IBOOT\*O"
Reboots the system in interactive mode.  You must provide the
kernel name upon a reboot of the machine.
.LE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Specifying \*LA_REMOUNT\*O is not supported for this release.  If
it is specified, a value of -1 will be returned and \*Lerrno\*O will
be set to \*LENOSYS\*O.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On success, specifying either \*LA_SHUTDOWN\*O or \*LA_REBOOT\*O does not
return a value.  Specifying \*LA_REMOUNT\*O returns zero (0) on success.
.PP
On error, a value of -1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set to
indicate error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The following errors are reported:
.VL
.LI "[ENOSYS]"
Indicates that a command was specified that is invalid.
.LE
.EQ
delim off
.EN
