.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: umask.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/10/06 16:52:10 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH umask 2
.SH NAME
\*Lumask\*O \- Sets and gets the value of the file creation mask
.SH SYNOPSIS 
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.sp .4v
\*L#include <sys/stat.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lmode_t umask (
.nL
	mode_t \*Vcmask \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vcmask"
\*OSpecifies the value of the file mode creation mask.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "umask function"
.iX "file" "setting and getting creation mask value"
.iX "file" "creation mask"
.iX "mask" "setting and getting value of for file"
.PP 
The \*Lumask(\|)\*O function sets the file mode creation mask
of the process to the value of the \*Vcmask\*O parameter and returns
the previous value of the mask.  The \*Vcmask \*Oparameter is constructed
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Changing stat.h to mode.h per mail from Steve Strange.
by logically ORing file permission bits defined in the \*Lsys/mode.h\*O
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
header file.
.PP 
Whenever a file is created (by the \*Lopen(\|)\*O,
\*Lmkdir(\|)\*O, or \*Lmknod(\|)\*O function), all file permission
bits set in the file mode creation mask are cleared in the mode of
the created file. This clearing allows users to restrict the default
access to their files.
.PP 
\*OThe mask is inherited by child processes.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the previous value of the file mode
creation mask is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lchmod\*O(2),
\*Lmkdir\*O(2),
\*Lmknod\*O(2),
\*Lopen\*O(2),
\*Lstat\*O(2)
.PP 
Commands:
\*Lchmod\*O(1), \*Lmkdir\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1)
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Commented out reference to umask(1) because Dave Long says
.\" we should not have this manpage in our kit.  (See answer to QAR 2425.)
.\" , \*Lumask\*O(1)
.\" End Digital-specific information
.iX "umask function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
