.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: uname.2,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 14:55:17 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH uname 2
.SH NAME
\*Luname\*O \- Gets the name of the current system
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/utsname.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint uname (
.nL
	struct utsname *\*Vname \*L);
.nL
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vname"
\*OPoints to a \*Lutsname\*O structure.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "uname function"
.iX "system" "getting name of"
.iX "system" "identifying"
.PP 
The \*Luname(\|)\*O function stores information identifying
the current system in the structure pointed to by the \*Vname\*O
parameter.
.PP 
The \*Luname(\|)\*O function uses the \*Lutsname\*O structure,
which is defined in the \*Lsys/utsname.h\*O file and contains
the following members:
.rS 
\*Lchar	sysname[SYS_NMLN];
.nL
char	nodename[SYS_NMLN];
.nL
char	release[SYS_NMLN];
.nL
char	version[SYS_NMLN];
.nL
char	machine[SYS_NMLN];\*O
.rE 
.PP 
The \*Luname(\|)\*O function returns a null-terminated character
string naming the current system in the \*Lsysname \*Ocharacter
array. The \*Lnodename\*O array contains the name that the system
is known by on a communications network. The\*L release\*O and \*Lversion\*O
arrays further identify the system. The \*Lmachine\*O array
identifies the CPU hardware being used.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, a nonnegative value is returned.
Otherwise,
-1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the \*Luname(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to the following value:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The \*Vname\*O parameter points outside of
the process address space.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands: \*Luname\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
