.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: unlink.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/24 21:26:15 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH unlink 2
.SH NAME
\*Lunlink\*O \- Removes a directory entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lint unlink (
.nL
	const char *\*Vpath \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.VL
.LI "\*Vpath\*O"
Specifies the directory entry to be removed.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "unlink function"
.iX "directory" "removing entry of"
.iX "link" "removing directory entry"
.iX "link" "decrementing count"
.PP
The \*Lunlink(\|)\*O function removes the directory entry specified
by the \*Vpath\*O parameter and, if the entry is a hard link,
decrements the link count of
the file referenced by the link.
.PP
When all links to a file are removed and no process has the file
open or mapped, all resources associated with the file are reclaimed, and the
file is no longer accessible. If one or more processes have the file
open or mapped when the last
link is removed, the link is removed before the
\*Lunlink(\|)\*O
function
returns,
but the removal of the file contents is postponed until all open or
map references
to the file are removed.
If the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter names a symbolic link, the symbolic link itself is removed.
.PP
A hard link to a directory cannot be unlinked.
.PP
A process must have write access to the parent directory of the file
to be
unlinked with respect to all access policies.
.PP
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lunlink(\|)\*O
function marks for update the
\*Lst_ctime\*O
and
\*Lst_mtime\*O
fields of the directory which contained the link.
If the file's link count is not 0 (zero), the
\*Lst_ctime\*O
field of the file is also marked for update.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding an Environment Note.
.SS "System V Compatibility"
Any attempt to unlink non-empty directories in the System V
habitat will cause the \*Lunlink\*O call to fail and set
errno to ENOTEMPTY, even if the process has superuser privileges.
This error behavior is provided in the System V habitat to comply
with the SVID-2 industry standard.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. If the
\*Lunlink(\|)\*O function fails, a value of -1 is returned, the named
file is not changed, and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lunlink(\|)\*O function fails, the named file is not
unlinked and
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[ENOENT]"
The named file does not exist or the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter points to an empty string.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EACCES]"
Search permission is denied for a component of the
path prefix, or write permission is denied on the directory containing
the link to be removed.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EPERM]"
The named file is a directory.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EPERM]"
The S_ISVTX flag is set on the directory containing the file to be
deleted, and the caller is not the file owner.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EBUSY]"
The entry to be unlinked is the mount point for
a mounted file system.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EROFS]"
The entry to be unlinked is part of a read-only
file system.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The
\*Vpath\*O
parameter is an invalid address.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[ELOOP]"
Too many links were encountered in translating
\*Vpath\*O.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]"
The length of the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter exceeds
PATH_MAX
or a pathname component is longer than
NAME_MAX.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOTDIR]"
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lclose\*O(2),
\*Llink\*O(2),
\*Lopen\*O(2),
\*Lrmdir\*O(2)
.PP
Commands: \*Lrm\*O(1)
.iX "unlink function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
