.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.TH uswitch 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Luswitch\*O - Gets or changes the NULL pointer treatment for a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L#include <sys/uswitch.h>
.nL
	\*Luswitch (int \*Vcmd,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vvalue\*L);
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vcmd\*O"
Specifies the requested actions.
The valid \*Vcmd\*O values are:
.VL
.LI USC_GET
Returns the current \*Luswitch\*O value for the
calling process.
This value should be AND'ed with USW_NULLP to extract the current
NULL pointer behavior.
.LI USC_SET
Changes the current \*Luswitch\*O value for the
calling process.
.LE
.LI "\*Vvalue\*O"
Is used with USC_SET to specify the new \*Luswitch\*O value.
The \*Lvalue\*O parameter should be AND'ed with USW_NULLP to
change the NULL pointer treatment.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "uswitch"
.iX "NULL pointer treatment"
.PP
The \*Luswitch\*O system call is used to get or change
the treatment of a NULL pointer for the current process.
.PP
When the USW_NULLP bit of \*Luswitch\fP is set to 1,
the System V method of treating NULL pointers is applied.
In this method references to a NULL pointer will always return 0 (zero).
.PP
To change the treatment of NULL pointers back to its default,
reset the USW_NULLP bit in the \*Luswitch\*O value to 0 (zero).
This will cause subsequent references to a NULL pointer to generate
a segmentation violation (SIGSEGV) signal.  See EXAMPLE section.
.PP
Any \*Lwrite(2)\*O references to NULL pointers generate
a segmentation violation (SIGSEGV) signal regardless of the
\*Luswitch\*O value.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
.in-2
int uswitch_val;
\&...
uswitch_val = uswitch(USC_GET, 0);      /* Gets current value*/
uswitch(USC_SET, uswitch_val | ~USW_NULLP);
                                        /* Sets USW_NULLP bit*/
.in+2
.oE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion the current or new \*Luswitch\*O value is
returned.  Otherwise, a value
of -1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Luswitch \*O call fails, the \*Luswitch \*Ovalue remains unchanged
and \*Lerrno \*O is set to the following:
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vvalue\*L is greater than USW_MAX or less than USW_MIN.
.LE
.EQ
delim off
.EN
