.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: utime.2,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 23:04:23 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.TH utime 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lutime\*O, \*Lutimes\*O \- Sets file access and modification times
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/time.h>
.sp .4v
\*L#include <utime.h>
.sp .4v
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint utime\*O (\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char\*O *\*Vpath\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lstruct utimbuf\*O *\*Vtimes\*O );\*L
.sp .4v
\*Lint utimes (
.nL
	const char *\*Vpath\*L,
.nL
	struct timeval \*Vtimes\*L[2];
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*Vpath\*O"
Points to the file.
If the final component of the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter names a symbolic link,
the link will be traversed and pathname resolution will continue.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vtimes\*O"
Points to a \*Lutimbuf\*O
structure
for the
\*Lutime(\|)\*O
function,
or to
an array of \*Ltimeval\*O structures for the
\*Lutimes(\|)\*O
function.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "utime function"
.iX "utimes function"
.iX "file" "setting access and modification times"
.iX "process" "unloading specified module"
.iX "virtual address" "unloading specified module"
.iX "file" "access"
.iX "file" "modification time"
The \*Lutimes(\|)\*O function sets the access and modification
times of the file pointed to by the \*Vpath\*O parameter to the
value of the\*V times\*O parameter.
The \*Lutimes(\|)\*O function
allows time specifications accurate to the microsecond.
.PP
The \*Lutime(\|)\*O function also sets file access and modification
times;  however, each time is contained in a single integer and is
accurate only to the nearest second.
.PP
For \*Lutime(\|)\*O, the
\*Vtimes\*O
parameter is a pointer to a \*Lutimbuf\*O
structure, defined in the \*Lutime.h\*O header file. The first
structure member represents the date and time of last access, and
the second member represents the date and time of last modification.
The times in the \*Lutimbuf\*O structure are measured in seconds
since the epoch (00:00:00, January 1, 1970, Coordinated Universal Time
(CUT)).
.PP
For \*Lutimes(\|)\*O, the
\*Vtimes\*O
parameter is an array of \*Ltimeval\*O
structures, as defined in the \*Lsys/time.h\*O header file.
The
first array element represents the date and time of last access, and
the second element represents the date and time of last modification.
The times in the \*Ltimeval\*O structure are measured in seconds
and microseconds since the epoch,
although rounding towards the nearest second may occur.
.PP
If the \*Vtimes\*O parameter is null, the access and
modification times of the file are set to the current time. If the
file is a remote file, the current time at the remote node, rather
than the local node, is used.
The effective user ID of the process
must be the same as the owner of the file, or must have
write access to
the file
or
superuser
privilege in order to
use the call in this manner.
.PP
If the \*Vtimes\*O parameter is not null,
the access and modification times are set to the values contained
in the designated structure, regardless of whether those times correlate
with the current time. Only the owner of the file or a user with
superuser
privilege can use the call this way.
.PP
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lutime(\|)\*O
and
\*Lutimes(\|)\*O
functions mark the time of the last file status change,
\*Lst_ctime\*O, for update.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. Otherwise,
a value of -1 is returned, \*Lerrno\*O is
set to indicate the error, and the file times will not
be affected.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lutimes(\|)\*O or \*Lutime(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[ENOENT]"
The named file does not exist or the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter points to an empty string.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EPERM]"
The \*Vtimes\*O parameter is not the null
value and the calling process has write access to the file
but neither owns the file nor has
the appropriate system privilege.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EACCES]"
Search permission is denied by a component of the path prefix; or
the \*Vtimes\*O parameter is null
and effective user ID is neither the owner of the
file nor has appropriate
system privilege, and write access is denied.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EROFS]"
The file system that contains the file is mounted
read-only.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The
\*Vpath\*O
parameter is an invalid address, or (for
\*Lutimes(\|)\*O)
either the
\*Vpath\*O
or
\*Vtimes\*O
parameter is an invalid address.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[ELOOP]"
Too many links were encountered in translating
\*Vpath\*O.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]"
The length of the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter exceeds
PATH_MAX
or a pathname component is longer than
NAME_MAX.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOTDIR]"
A component of the path
prefix is not a directory.
.LE
.PP
The \*Lutimes(\|)\*O function can also fail if
additional errors occur.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lstat\*O(2)
.iX "utime function"
.iX "utimes function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
