.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: waitid.2,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/06 19:57:31 $
.\"
.TH waitid 2
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lwaitid\*O \- wait for child process to change state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>\*O
.PP
\*L#include <wait.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint waitid (\*O
.nL
     \*Lidtype_t \*Vidtype,\*L
.nL
     id_t        \*Vid,\*L
.nL
     siginfo_t   \*V*infop,\*L
.nL
     int         \*Voptions );\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vidtype\*O"
Identifies the type of process to be affected.  Used with the
\*Vid\*O parameter, it suspends execution for the specified
child process.
.LI "\*Vid\*O"
Specifies either the process ID or process group ID of the
child process.  Used with the \*Vidtype\*O parameter, it suspends
execution for the specified process.
.LI "\*Vinfop\*O"
Specifies a pointer to a \*Lsiginfo_t\*O structure.
.LI "\*Voptions\*O"
Specifies the conditions that must occur before a wait operation
is performed by the \*Lwaitid\*O function.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lwaitid\*O function holds a calling process until the
.iX "waitid function"
state of one of the child processes changes.  The current state
of the child is recorded in a structure pointed to by the
\*Vinfop\*O parameter.
If a child process changed state prior to the call to the
\*Lwaitid\*O function, the \*Lwaitid\*O function returns
immediately.
.PP
The \*Vidtype\*O and \*Vid\*O parameters
determine which child process the \*Lwaitid\*O function
is to act upon.
.ML
.LI
If the \*Vidtype\*O parameter is \*LP_PID\*O, the \*Lwaitid\*O function waits
for the child with a process ID equal to \*L(pid_t)\*Vid\*O.
.LI
If the \*Vidtype\*O parameter is \*LP_PGID\*O, the \*Lwaitid\*O function waits
for any child with a process group ID equal to \*L(pid_t)\*Vid\*O.
.LI
If the \*Vidtype\*O parameter is \*LP_ALL\*O, the \*Lwaitid\*O function
waits for any children and the \*Vid\*O parameter is ignored.
.LE
.PP
The \*Voptions\*O parameter specifies the conditions that must occur
before a wait operation is performed by the \*Lwaitid\*O
function.  To specify a condition, OR any of the following flags:
.VL
.LI "\*LWEXITED\*O"
Wait for process(es) to exit.
.LI "\*LWTRAPPED\*O"
Wait for traced process(es) to become trapped or reach a breakpoint
[see \*Lptrace\*O(2)].
.LI "\*LWSTOPPED\*O"
Wait for and return the process status of any child that has
stopped upon receipt of a signal.
.LI "\*LWCONTINUED\*O"
Return the status for any child that was stopped and has been continued.
.LI "\*LWNOHANG\*O"
Specifies an immediate return if there is no wait for a child process.
.LI "\*LWNOWAIT\*O"
Keep the process in a waitable state.  Another wait may occur with the
same results.
.LE
.PP
The \*Vinfop\*O parameter must point to a \*Lsiginfo_t\*O structure as
defined in \*Lsiginfo\*O(5).  This structure contains the status of why
a process is in a wait state.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
If the \*Lwaitid\*O function because of
a change in the state of one of its children, a value of zero (0)
is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function fails under the following conditions:
.VL
.LI "[EFAULT]"
Specifies that the \*Vinfop\*O parameter points to an invalid
address.
.LI "[EINTR]"
Specifies that the \*Lwaitid\*O function was interrupted by the
receipt of a signal from the calling process.
.LI "[EINVAL]"
Specifies that an invalid value was used with the \*Voptions\*O
parameter.
.LI "[EINVAL]"
Specifies that \*Vidtype\*O and \*Vid\*O parameters specify an
invalid set of processes.
.LI "[ECHILD]"
Specifies that the set of processes specified by the \*Vidtype\*O
and \*Vid\*O parameters does not contain any unwaited for
processes.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lintro\*O(2),
\*Lexec\*O(2),
\*Lexit\*O(2),
\*Lfork\*O(2),
\*Lpause\*O(3),
\*Lptrace\*O(2),
\*Lsignal\*O(2),
\*Lsigaction\*O(2),
\*Lwait\*O(2).
.PP
Routines: 
\*Lpause\*O(3).
.PP
Files: \*Lsiginfo\*O(5).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
