.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" $XConsortium: showrgb.man,v 1.1 91/07/29 21:35:11 gildea Exp $
.TH SHOWRGB 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
showrgb \- uncompile an rgb color-name database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B showrgb
[
.I database
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I showrgb
program reads an rgb color-name database compiled for use with the dbm
database routines and converts it back to source form, printing the
result to standard output.  The default
database is the one that X was built with, and may be overridden on
the command line.  Specify the database name without
the \fI.pag\fP or \fI.dir\fP suffix.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
/usr/lib/X11/rgb
default database.
