.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH ImageByteOrder 3X11 "Release 5" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
ImageByteOrder, BitmapBitOrder, BitmapPad, BitmapUnit, DisplayHeight, DisplayHeightMM, DisplayWidth, DisplayWidthMM, XListPixmapFormats, XPixmapFormatValues \- image format functions and macros
.SH SYNTAX
XPixmapFormatValues *XListPixmapFormats\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIcount_return\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      int *\fIcount_return\fP\^;
.LP
ImageByteOrder\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP\^)
.LP
BitmapBitOrder\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP\^)
.LP
BitmapPad\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP\^)
.LP
BitmapUnit\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP\^)
.LP
DisplayHeight\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP\^, \^\fIscreen_number\fP\^)
.LP
DisplayHeightMM\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP\^, \^\fIscreen_number\fP\^)
.LP
DisplayWidth\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP\^, \^\fIscreen_number\fP\^)
.LP
DisplayWidthMM\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP\^, \^\fIscreen_number\fP\^)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/ImageOrd.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.ds Cn pixmap formats that are supported by the display
.IP \fIcount_return\fP 1i
Returns the number of \*(Cn.
.IP \fIscreen_number\fP 1i
Specifies the appropriate screen number on the host server.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XListPixmapFormats
function returns an array of
.ZN XPixmapFormatValues
structures that describe the types of Z format images supported
by the specified display.
If insufficient memory is available,
.ZN XListPixmapFormats
returns NULL.
To free the allocated storage for the
.ZN XPixmapFormatValues
structures, use
.ZN XFree .
.LP
The
.ZN ImageByteOrder
macro specifies the required byte order for images for each scanline unit in
XY format (bitmap) or for each pixel value in Z format.
.LP
The
.ZN BitmapBitOrder
macro returns 
.ZN LSBFirst
or
.ZN MSBFirst
to indicate whether the leftmost bit in the bitmap as displayed
on the screen is the least or most significant bit in the unit.
.LP
The
.ZN BitmapPad
macro returns the number of bits that each scanline must be padded.
.LP
The
.ZN BitmapUnit
macro returns the size of a bitmap's scanline unit in bits.
.LP
The
.ZN DisplayHeight
macro returns the height of the specified screen in pixels.
.LP
The
.ZN DisplayHeightMM
macro returns the height of the specified screen in millimeters.
.LP
The
.ZN DisplayWidth
macro returns the width of the screen in pixels.
.LP
The
.ZN DisplayWidthMM
macro returns the width of the specified screen in millimeters.
.SH STRUCTURES
The
.ZN XPixmapFormatValues
structure provides an interface to the pixmap format information
that is returned at the time of a connection setup.
It contains:
.Ds 0
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
typedef struct {
	int depth;
	int bits_per_pixel;
	int scanline_pad;
} XPixmapFormatValues;
.De
.SH "SEE ALSO"
AllPlanes(3X11),
BlackPixelOfScreen(3X11),
IsCursorKey(3X11),
XFree(3X11)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
