.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XAllowEvents 3X11 "Release 5" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XAllowEvents \- release queued events
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XAllEvnt.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
XAllowEvents\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIevent_mode\fP\^, \fItime\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIevent_mode\fP\^; 
.br
      Time \fItime\fP\^; 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XAllEvnt.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XAllEvnt.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIevent_mode\fP 1i
Specifies the event mode.
You can pass 
.ZN AsyncPointer , 
.ZN SyncPointer , 
.ZN AsyncKeyboard , 
.ZN SyncKeyboard ,
.ZN ReplayPointer , 
.ZN ReplayKeyboard ,
.ZN AsyncBoth ,
or
.ZN SyncBoth .
.IP \fItime\fP 1i
Specifies the time.
You can pass either a timestamp or
.ZN CurrentTime .
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XAllEvnt.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
The
.ZN XAllowEvents
function releases some queued events if the client has caused a device 
to freeze.
It has no effect if the specified time is earlier than the last-grab
time of the most recent active grab for the client or if the specified time
is later than the current X server time.
.LP
.ZN XAllowEvents
can generate a
.ZN BadValue 
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XAllEvnt.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fI\*(xL\fP
