.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XDrawRectangle 3X11 "Release 5" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XDrawRectangle, XDrawRectangles, XRectangle \- draw rectangles and rectangles structure
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XDrRect.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
XDrawRectangle\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fId\fP\^, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIx\fP\^, \fIy\fP\^, \fIwidth\fP\^, \fIheight\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Drawable \fId\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIx\fP\^, \fIy\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIwidth\fP\^, \fIheight\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XDrRect.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
XDrawRectangles\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fId\fP\^, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIrectangles\fP\^, \fInrectangles\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Drawable \fId\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      XRectangle \fIrectangles\fP\^[\^]\^;
.br
      int \fInrectangles\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XDrRect.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fId\fP 1i
Specifies the drawable. 
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XDrRect.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XDrRect.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
Specifies the GC.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XDrRect.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fInrectangles\fP 1i
Specifies the number of rectangles in the array.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XDrRect.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIrectangles\fP 1i
Specifies an array of rectangles.
.ds Wh , which specify the dimensions of the rectangle
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XDrRect.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
Specify the width and height\*(Wh.
.ds Xy , which specify the upper-left corner of the rectangle
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XDrRect.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
Specify the x and y coordinates\*(Xy.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XDrRect.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
The
.ZN XDrawRectangle
and
.ZN XDrawRectangles
functions draw the outlines of the specified rectangle or rectangles as
if a five-point 
.ZN PolyLine 
protocol request were specified for each rectangle:
.IP
[x,y] [x+width,y] [x+width,y+height] [x,y+height] [x,y]
.LP 
For the specified rectangle or rectangles, 
these functions do not draw a pixel more than once.
.ZN XDrawRectangles
draws the rectangles in the order listed in the array.
If rectangles intersect,
the intersecting pixels are drawn multiple times.
.LP
Both functions use these GC components: 
function, plane-mask, line-width,
line-style, cap-style, join-style, fill-style, 
subwindow-mode, clip-x-origin, clip-y-origin, and clip-mask.
They also use these GC mode-dependent components: 
foreground, background, tile, stipple, tile-stipple-x-origin, 
tile-stipple-y-origin, dash-offset, and dash-list.
.LP
.ZN XDrawRectangle
and
.ZN XDrawRectangles
can generate
.ZN BadDrawable ,
.ZN BadGC ,
and
.ZN BadMatch 
errors.
.SH STRUCTURES
The
.ZN XRectangle
structure contains:
.LP
.Ds 0
.TA .5i
.ta .5i
typedef struct {
	short x, y;
	unsigned short width, height;
} XRectangle;
.De
.LP
All x and y members are signed integers.
The width and height members are 16-bit unsigned integers.
You should be careful not to generate coordinates and sizes
out of the 16-bit ranges, because the protocol only has 16-bit fields
for these values.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XDrRect.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.TP 1i
.ZN BadDrawable
A value for a Drawable argument does not name a defined Window or Pixmap.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XDrRect.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.TP 1i
.ZN BadGC
A value for a GContext argument does not name a defined GContext.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XDrRect.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.TP 1i
.ZN BadMatch
An
.ZN InputOnly
window is used as a Drawable.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XDrRect.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.TP 1i
.ZN BadMatch
Some argument or pair of arguments has the correct type and range but fails
to match in some other way required by the request.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XDrawArc(3X11),
XDrawLine(3X11),
XDrawPoint(3X11)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
