.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XmbDrawImageString 3X11 "Release 5" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XmbDrawImageString, XwcDrawImageString \- draw image text using a single font set
.SH SYNTAX
void XmbDrawImageString\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP\^, \fId\fP\^, \fIfont_set\fP\^, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIx\fP\^, \fIy\fP\^, \fIstring\fP\^, \fInum_bytes\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Drawable \fId\fP\^;
.br
      XFontSet \fIfont_set\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIx\fP\^, \fIy\fP\^;
.br
      char *\fIstring\fP\^;
.br
      int \fInum_bytes\fP\^;
.LP
void XwcDrawImageString\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP\^, \fId\fP\^, \fIfont_set\fP\^, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIx\fP\^, \fIy\fP\^, \fIstring\fP\^, \fInum_wchars\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Drawable \fId\fP\^;
.br
      XFontSet \fIfont_set\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIx\fP\^, \fIy\fP\^;
.br
      wchar_t *\fIstring\fP\^;
.br
      int \fInum_wchars\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XmbDIStr.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fId\fP 1i
Specifies the drawable. 
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XmbDIStr.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XmbDIStr.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIfont_set\fP 1i
Specifies the font set.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XmbDIStr.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
Specifies the GC.
.IP \fInum_bytes\fP 1i
Specifies the number of bytes in the string argument.
.IP \fInum_wchars\fP 1i
Specifies the number of characters in the string argument.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XmbDIStr.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIstring\fP 1i
Specifies the character string.
.ds Xy
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XmbDIStr.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
Specify the x and y coordinates\*(Xy.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ZN XmbDrawImageString
and
.ZN XwcDrawImageString
fill a destination rectangle with the background pixel defined in the GC 
and then paint the text with the foreground pixel.
The filled rectangle is the rectangle returned to overall_logical_return by
.ZN XmbTextExtents
or 
.ZN XwcTextExtents
for the same text and 
.ZN XFontSet .
.LP
When the 
.ZN XFontSet
has missing charsets, each unavailable character is drawn 
with the default string returned by 
.ZN XCreateFontSet .
The behavior for an invalid codepoint is undefined.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XDrawImageString(3X11),
XDrawString(3X11),
XDrawText(3X11),
XmbDrawString(3X11),
XmbDrawText(3X11)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
