.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XQueryTree 3X11 "Release 5" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XQueryTree \- query window tree information
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XQTree.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
Status XQueryTree\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIw\fP\^, \fIroot_return\fP\^, \fIparent_return\fP\^, \fIchildren_return\fP\^, \fInchildren_return\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Window \fIw\fP\^;
.br
      Window *\fIroot_return\fP\^;
.br
      Window *\fIparent_return\fP\^;
.br
      Window **\fIchildren_return\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int *\fInchildren_return\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XQTree.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIchildren_return\fP 1i
Returns the list of children.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XQTree.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XQTree.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fInchildren_return\fP 1i
Returns the number of children.
.IP \fIparent_return\fP 1i
Returns the parent window.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XQTree.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIroot_return\fP 1i
Returns the root window.
.ds Wi whose list of children, root, parent, and number of children \
you want to obtain
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XQTree.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies the window \*(Wi.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XQTree.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
The
.ZN XQueryTree
function returns the root ID, the parent window ID, 
a pointer to the list of children windows, 
and the number of children in the list for the specified window.
The children are listed in current stacking order, from bottommost 
(first) to topmost (last).
.ZN XQueryTree
returns zero if it fails and nonzero if it succeeds.
To free this list when it is no longer needed, use 
.ZN XFree .
.SH BUGS
This really should return a screen *, not a root window ID.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XFree(3X11),
XGetWindowAttributes(3X11),
XQueryPointer(3X11)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
