.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XSetFont 3X11 "Release 5" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XSetFont \- GC convenience routines
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XSeFont.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
XSetFont\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIfont\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      Font \fIfont\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XSeFont.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XSeFont.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIfont\fP 1i
Specifies the font.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XSeFont.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
Specifies the GC.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XSeFont.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
The
.ZN XSetFont
function sets the current font in the specified GC.
.LP
.ZN XSetFont
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc ,
.ZN BadFont ,
and
.ZN BadGC 
errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XSeFont.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAlloc
The server failed to allocate the requested resource or server memory.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XSeFont.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.TP 1i
.ZN BadFont
A value for a Font or GContext argument does not name a defined Font.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XSeFont.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.TP 1i
.ZN BadGC
A value for a GContext argument does not name a defined GContext.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCreateGC(3X11),
XQueryBestSize(3X11),
XSetArcMode(3X11),
XSetClipOrigin(3X11),
XSetFillStyle(3X11),
XSetLineAttributes(3X11),
XSetState(3X11),
XSetTile(3X11)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
