.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XSetSelectionOwner 3X11 "Release 5" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XSetSelectionOwner, XGetSelectionOwner, XConvertSelection \- manipulate window selection
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XSeSelOwn.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
XSetSelectionOwner\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIselection\fP\^, \fIowner\fP\^, \fItime\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Atom \fIselection\fP\^;
.br
      Window \fIowner\fP\^; 
.br
      Time \fItime\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XSeSelOwn.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
Window XGetSelectionOwner\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIselection\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Atom \fIselection\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XSeSelOwn.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
XConvertSelection\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIselection\fP\^, \fItarget\fP\^, \fIproperty\fP\^, \fIrequestor\fP\^, \fItime\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Atom \fIselection\fP\^, \fItarget\fP\^;
.br
      Atom \fIproperty\fP\^;
.br
      Window \fIrequestor\fP\^;
.br
      Time \fItime\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XSeSelOwn.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XSeSelOwn.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIowner\fP 1i
Specifies the owner of the specified selection atom.
You can pass a window or
.ZN None .
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XSeSelOwn.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIproperty\fP 1i
Specifies the property name.
You also can pass
.ZN None .
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XSeSelOwn.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIrequestor\fP 1i
Specifies the requestor.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XSeSelOwn.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIselection\fP 1i
Specifies the selection atom.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XSeSelOwn.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fItarget\fP 1i
Specifies the target atom.
.IP \fItime\fP 1i
Specifies the time.
You can pass either a timestamp or
.ZN CurrentTime .
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XSeSelOwn.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
The
.ZN XSetSelectionOwner
function changes the owner and last-change time for the specified selection
and has no effect if the specified time is earlier than the current
last-change time of the specified selection 
or is later than the current X server time.
Otherwise, the last-change time is set to the specified time,
with
.ZN CurrentTime
replaced by the current server time.
If the owner window is specified as
.ZN None ,
then the owner of the selection becomes 
.ZN None
(that is, no owner).
Otherwise, the owner of the selection becomes the client executing
the request.
.LP 
If the new owner (whether a client or
.ZN None )
is not
the same as the current owner of the selection and the current
owner is not
.ZN None ,
the current owner is sent a 
.ZN SelectionClear 
event.
If the client that is the owner of a selection is later
terminated (that is, its connection is closed)
or if the owner window it has specified in the request is later
destroyed,
the owner of the selection automatically
reverts to
.ZN None ,
but the last-change time is not affected.
The selection atom is uninterpreted by the X server.
.ZN XGetSelectionOwner
returns the owner window, which is reported in 
.ZN SelectionRequest
and
.ZN SelectionClear
events.
Selections are global to the X server.
.LP
.ZN XSetSelectionOwner
can generate
.ZN BadAtom
and
.ZN BadWindow 
errors.
.LP
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XSeSelOwn.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
The
.ZN XGetSelectionOwner
function
returns the window ID associated with the window that currently owns the
specified selection.
If no selection was specified, the function returns the constant
.ZN None .
If
.ZN None
is returned,
there is no owner for the selection.
.LP
.ZN XGetSelectionOwner
can generate a
.ZN BadAtom 
error.
.LP
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XSeSelOwn.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.ZN XConvertSelection
requests that the specified selection be converted to the specified target
type:
.IP \(bu 5
If the specified selection has an owner, the X server sends a
.ZN SelectionRequest
event to that owner.
.IP \(bu 5
If no owner for the specified
selection exists, the X server generates a
.ZN SelectionNotify
event to the
requestor with property
.ZN None .
.LP
The arguments are passed on unchanged in either of the events.
There are two predefined selection atoms: PRIMARY and SECONDARY.
.LP
.ZN XConvertSelection
can generate
.ZN BadAtom
and
.ZN BadWindow 
errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XSeSelOwn.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAtom
A value for an Atom argument does not name a defined Atom.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XSeSelOwn.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value for a Window argument does not name a defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fI\*(xL\fP
