.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XTranslateCoordinates 3X11 "Release 5" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XTranslateCoordinates \- translate window coordinates
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XTranWCo.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
Bool XTranslateCoordinates\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIsrc_w\fP\^, \fIdest_w\fP\^, \fIsrc_x\fP\^, \fIsrc_y\fP\^, \fIdest_x_return\fP\^, 
.br
                            \fIdest_y_return\fP\^, \fIchild_return\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Window \fIsrc_w\fP\^, \fIdest_w\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIsrc_x\fP\^, \fIsrc_y\fP\^;
.br
      int *\fIdest_x_return\fP\^, *\fIdest_y_return\fP\^;
.br
      Window *\fIchild_return\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XTranWCo.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIchild_return\fP 1i
Returns the child if the coordinates are contained in a mapped child of the
destination window.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XTranWCo.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIdest_w\fP 1i
Specifies the destination window.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XTranWCo.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIdest_x_return\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIdest_y_return\fP 1i
Return the x and y coordinates within the destination window.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XTranWCo.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XTranWCo.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIsrc_w\fP 1i
Specifies the source window.
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XTranWCo.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.IP \fIsrc_x\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIsrc_y\fP 1i
Specify the x and y coordinates within the source window.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XTranWCo.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
If
.ZN XTranslateCoordinates
returns
.ZN True ,
it takes the src_x and src_y coordinates relative
to the source window's origin and returns these coordinates to 
dest_x_return and dest_y_return
relative to the destination window's origin.
If
.ZN XTranslateCoordinates
returns 
.ZN False , 
src_w and dest_w are on different screens,
and dest_x_return and dest_y_return are zero.
If the coordinates are contained in a mapped child of dest_w,
that child is returned to child_return.
Otherwise, child_return is set to
.ZN None .
.LP
.ZN XTranslateCoordinates
can generate a
.ZN BadWindow 
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: /usr/sde/x11/rcs/x11/src/./man/Xlib/XTranWCo.man,v 1.2 91/12/15 12:42:16 devrcs Exp $
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value for a Window argument does not name a defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fI\*(xL\fP
