.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" $XConsortium: Xqvss.man,v 1.10 91/07/27 17:03:14 rws Exp $
.TH XQVSS 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
Xqvss - QVSS server for the X Window System
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This driver supports the QVSS and SM displays.
.PP
The QVSS hardware in the DEC VS2 is monochrome.  The usable size is 864
lines by 1024 pixels/line.  (Under some versions of Ultrix, the driver
thinks the screen is 960 pixels wide; to fix this for a VR260 monitor, patch
the kernel variable qv_def_scrn to 2 and rebuild the kernel.).
.PP
The SM hardware in the DEC VaxStation is functionally identical with the QVSS
hardware, except for new cursor support and slightly different cabling.
.PP
Probably the most irritating problem with the QVSS hardware is the
cursor support, which is limited to 16x16.
As only ``and'' and ``or'' operations are available in the hardware,
the driver inverts the cursor depending upon the pixels below
the cursor.
The server displays a reasonable cursor in most (but not all)
circumstances.  The SM hardware has better support \(em two planes
instead of one; exactly what X needs.
.PP
Under Ultrix-32 release 1.1 and 4.2BSD,
the window system will be slightly unreliable due
to a kernel problem.
Fixed in Ultrix32 release 1.2.
Under Ultrix-32 1.1, your best bet is to use unix domain connections
(unix:0 as host spec's) for local connections.
.SH OPTIONS
.br
\fB-bp\fP \fIpixel-value\fP	set default black-pixel color
.br
\fB-wp\fP \fIpixel-value\fP	set default white-pixel color
.sp
The server also takes all of the standard server options (See \fIXserver(1)\fP
for a complete list.)
.PP
Performance needs to be better, but the server is usable; it
uses the X11 portable monchrome framebuffer code.  Look in 
\fIcontrib/server/speedups/donohue.shar\fP for some ideas
which could speed up this server.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
Xserver(1), xinit(1), X(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1988, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Phil Karlton wrote the QVSS-specific pieces of X11; thanks to
David Carver of the DEC Workstations group for work on X10.
