.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: end.5,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/11 17:21:32 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" 
.TH end 5
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lend\*O, \*Letext\*O, \*Ledata\*O \- Defines the last location of a program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lextern end;
.nL
.sp .4v
extern etext;
.nL
.sp .4v
extern edata;\*L
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "end identifier"
.iX "etext identifier"
.iX "edata identifier"
.iX "loader" "defined external names for program locations"
The external names \*Lend\*O, \*Letext\*O, and \*Ledata\*O
are defined for all programs.  They are not functions,
but identifiers associated with the following addresses:
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*Letext"
\*OThe first address following the program text.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Ledata"
\*OThe first address following the initialized data region.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Lend"
\*OThe first address following the data region that
is not initialized.
.LE
.PP
The break value of the program is the first location beyond the
data.  When a program begins running, this location coincides with
\*Lend\*O.  However, many factors can change the break value, including:
.\"from TP 4"  
.\" bullet list under TP ! " 
.ML
.LI
\*OThe \*Lbrk(\|)\*O function
.\"from TP "  
.\" bullet list under TP ! " 
.LI
\*OThe \*Lmalloc(\|)\*O function
.\"from TP "  
.\" bullet list under TP ! " 
.LI
\*OThe standard I/O functions
.\"from TP "  
.\" bullet list under TP ! " 
.LI
\*OThe \*L-p\*O flag on the \*Lcc\*O command
.LE
.PP
Therefore, use \*Lsbrk(0)\*O, not \*Lend\*O, to determine
the break value of the program.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lbrk\*O(2),
\*Lmalloc\*O(3)
.PP
Commands: \*Lcc\*O(1)
.iX "_end identifier"
.iX "_etext identifier"
.iX "_edata identifier"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
