.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: environ.5,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 11:20:48 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)environ.7	6.5 (Berkeley) 6/24/90
.\" 
.TH environ 5
.SH NAME
\*Lenviron\*O \- User environment
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lextern char **environ ;
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
An array of strings called the
environment
is made available by the
\*Lexecve(\|)\*O
function
when a process begins.  By convention these strings have the form
\*Vname=value\*O.
The following names are used by various commands:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.\" Bold under TP !" 
.VL
.LI "\*LEXINIT\*O"
A startup list of commands read by
\*Lex\*O,
\*Ledit\*O,
and
\*Lvi\*O.
.\"from TP "  
.\" Bold under TP !" 
.LI "\*LHOME\*O"
A user's login directory, set by
\*Llogin\*O
from the password file
\*Lpasswd\*O.
.\"from TP "  
.\" Bold under TP !" 
.LI "\*LPATH\*O"
The sequence of directories, separated by colons, searched by
\*Lcsh\*O,
\*Lsh\*O,
\*Lsystem\*O,
\*Lexecvp\*O,
etc, when looking for an executable file.
\*LPATH\*O is set to
\*L:/usr/ucb:/bin:/usr/bin\*O
initially by
login.
.\"from TP "  
.\" Bold under TP !" 
.LI "\*LPRINTER\*O"
The name of the default printer to be used by
\*Llpr\*O,
\*Llpq\*O,
and
\*Llprm\*O.
.\"from TP "  
.\" Bold under TP !" 
.LI "\*LSHELL\*O"
The full pathname of the user's login shell.
.\"from TP "  
.\" Bold under TP !" 
.LI "\*LTERM\*O"
The kind of terminal for which output is to be prepared.
This information is used by commands, such as
\*Lnroff\*O
.\" or
.\" \*Lplot\*O
which may exploit special terminal capabilities.  
.\" See \*L/usr/share/misc/termcap\*O for a list of terminal types.
.\"from TP "  
.\" Bold under TP !" 
.LI "\*LTERMCAP\*O"
The string describing the terminal in the
\*LTERM\*O
environment variable,
or, if
it begins with a \*L/\*O (slash), the name of the
\*Ltermcap\*O
file.
See
\*LTERMPATH\*O
below.
.\"from TP "  
.\" Bold under TP !" 
.LI "\*LTERMPATH\*O"
A sequence of pathnames of
\*Ltermcap\*O
files, separated by colons or spaces,
which are searched for terminal descriptions in the order listed.  Having
no
\*LTERMPATH\*O
is equivalent to a
\*LTERMPATH\*O
of
\*L$HOME/.termcap:/etc/termcap\*O.
\*LTERMPATH\*O
is ignored if
\*LTERMCAP\*O
contains a full pathname.
.\"from TP "  
.\" Bold under TP !" 
.LI "\*LUSER\*O"
The login name of the user.
.LE 
.PP 
Further names may be placed in the environment by the
\*Lexport\*O
command and
\*Vname=value\*O
arguments in
\*Lsh\*O,
or by the
\*Lsetenv\*O
command if you use
\*Lcsh\*O.
It is unwise to change certain
\*Lsh\*O
variables that are frequently exported by
\*L\&.profile\*O
files, such as
\*LMAIL\*O,
\*LPS1\*O,
\*LPS2\*O,
and
\*LIFS\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lexec\*O(2),
\*Lsystem\*O(3)
.PP 
Commands:
\*Lcsh\*O(1),
\*Lex\*O(1),
\*Llogin\*O(1),
\*Lsh\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
