.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: intro.5,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/22 14:58:01 $
.\"
.TH intro 5
.SH NAME
intro \- miscellaneous useful information pages
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "intro(5) keyword"
This section contains miscellaneous documentation, mostly
in the area of text processing macro packages for
\*Lnroff\*O
and other
\*L*roff\*O
formatters.
.\" Removed because it is no longer applicable
.\".PP
.\"The
.\"Section 5 DEC OSF/1 reference pages are
.\"made up of an OSF-supplied component
.\"and a Digital-supplied component.
.\"The title line of an OSF-supplied
.\"reference page carries an "OSF" label while the Digital-supplied
.\"reference pages are labeled "Digital".
.\".PP
.\"When OSF-supplied code operates differently on Digital platforms or
.\"has Digital extensions, information is added to the OSF reference page
.\"and marked as 
.\".br
.\"\*L[Digital only]\*O.
.\".PP
.\"When needed, technical corrections have been made to the OSF-supplied
.\"reference pages.
.PP
The suffixes used on some reference pages are used only to allow reference pages
with the same base name to exist on DEC OSF/1 systems. When used,
suffixes are made up of one to four letters. See the \*Lman\*O(1)
reference page for more information on suffixes.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
