.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: man.5,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/17 17:00:44 $
.\"
.TH man 5
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lman\*O, \*Lman.page\*O \- The \*Lman\*O macro packages for reference pages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Ltbl \*Vfile\*O ... \*L| neqn | nroff \-h \*O[\*Voptions\*O] \*L\-man | \*O...
.nL
\*Ltbl \*Vfile\*O ... \*L| neqn | nroff \-h \*O[\*Voptions\*O]
\*L\-man.page | \*O...
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-h\*O"
Uses output tabs during horizontal spacing to speed output and reduce
output character count.  Tab settings are assumed to be every eight
nominal character widths.
.LI "\*L-n\*VN\*O"
Numbers the first generated page as \*VN\*O.
.sp
Ignored by the \*Lman\*O macros for \*Lnroff\*O output.
Ignored for \*L*troff\*O output unless \*L-rp\*VS\*O is also specified.
.LI "\*L-rl\*VN\*O"
Turns on line double-spacing mode if \*VN\*O is greater than 0.
.LI "\*L-rn\*VN\*O"
Numbers the first generated page as \*VN\*O.
Page numbers always print on the outside end of the page footer.
.sp
Ignored by the \*Lman\*O macros for \*Lnroff\*O output.
.LI "\*L-rp\*VS\*O"
Sets the section number to \*VS\*O.  Section numbers appear in
output page footers as \*VS\*O\-\*VN\*O (chapter\-page-number).
.sp
Page numbers always print on the outside end of the page footer.
Starting page number defaults to ``1'' unless \*L-n\*VN\*O
or \*L-rn\*VN\*O is also specified.
.sp
Ignored by the \*Lman\*O macros for \*Lnroff\*O output.
.LI "\*L-rv2\*O"
Prints crop marks.  Only for use with \*L*troff\*O formatters.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "-; man command" "man macro package"
.iX "-; troff text processor" "man macro package"
.iX "-; nroff text processor" "man macro package"
.iX "-[" "man macro package"
.iX "reference page" "formatting"
The \*Lman\*O macro package is used to format
reference pages for unpaginated viewing,
or for printing on ASCII printers.  The \*Lman\*O
macro package is the default.
The reference pages installed on the base system are formatted by the
\*Lman\*O and the \*Lcatman\*O
commands, using the \*Lman\*O macro package.
.PP
The \*Lman.page\*O macro package is used to format reference manual
pages for \*Epaginated\*O ASCII output.
.PP
The \*Vfile\*O argument is the name of the reference page source file.
.PP
The page width is 77 columns when formatted by the
\*Lnroff\*O(1) command and the \*Lman\*O or \*Lman.page\*O macro
packages.
The output is paginated when formatted by the \*Lnroff\*O command
and the \*Lman.page\*O macro package, with page numbers appearing
at the bottom right of each output page.
.SS Macros
.iX "-[" "man macro package" "macros"
The following describes the macros in the
\*Lman\*O and \*Lman.page\*O macro packages.
.PP
Note that some of the macro descriptions contain information
about \*L*troff\*O output.  This is provided for completeness,
only.  Digital does not supply or support
any \*L*troff\*O formatters.
.PP
Any
\*Vtext\*O
argument
can range from zero to six words.
Quotation marks (" ") can be used to include blanks in words.
If
\*Vtext\*O
is not specified,
special treatment is applied to
the next input line that has text to be printed.
In this way,
\*L\&.I\*O
can be used to italicize a whole line or
\*L\&.SM\*O
followed by
\*L\&.B\*O
to make small bold letters.
.PP
A prevailing indent distance is remembered between
successive indented paragraphs,
and is reset to a default value upon reaching a nonindented paragraph.
Default units for indents \*Vi\*O
are ens (an en is 1 \*Lnroff\*O
character or 1/2 em space in the current point size).
.PP
Typeface and size are reset to default values
before each paragraph, and after processing
font and size setting macros.
.PP
.IP "\&.AT [ \*L3\*O|\*L4\*O|\*L5\*O ] [ \*Vnumber\*O ]" 12
For \*L*troff\*O output only.  Specifies the text string to be
printed as the inside page footer.  No argument, or the argument \*L3\*O,
specifies the text "7th Edition."
The argument \*L4\*O specifies the text "System III."
The argument \*L5\*O specifies the text "System V."
The argument \*L5\*O followed by a \*Vnumber\*O argument
specifies the text "System V Release \*Vnumber\*O."
.IP "\&.B [ \*Vtext...\*O ]"
Sets text \*Vtext\*O in boldface.  If no text is specified,
only the next source text line is set in boldface.
.IP "\&.BI \*Vword1 word2\*O [ \*Vwords...\*O ]"
Sets \*Vword1\*O in boldface, \*Vword2\*O in an italic typeface, and then
alternates between these two fonts for the remaining words, up to six
words.  Blanks between words are stripped unless the string is enclosed
in quotation marks (" ").
.IP "\&.BR \*Vword1 word2\*O [ \*Vwords...\*O ]"
Sets \*Vword1\*O in boldface, \*Vword2\*O in a roman typeface, and
then alternates
between these two fonts for the remaining words, up to six words.
Blanks between words are stripped unless the string is enclosed
in quotation marks (" ").
.IP "\&.CM [ \*Vnumber\*O ]"
For \*L*troff\*O output only.  Specifies the text string to be
printed as the inside page footer.  No argument, or the number \*L1\*O,
specifies the text "1st Carnegie-Mellon Update."
The number \*L2\*O specifies the text "2nd Carnegie-Mellon Update."
The number \*L3\*O specifies the text "3rd Carnegie-Mellon Update."
Any whole number \*Vn\*O above \*L3\*O specifies the text
"\*Vn\*Oth Carnegie-Mellon Update."
.IP "\&.CT \*Vcharacter\*O"
Prints the keyboard control character indicator
.CT \*Vcharacter\*O
\&.
For example,
\*L\&.CT A\*O
prints as
.CT A
\&.
.IP \&.CW
Sets text in a constant width font until another font change is encountered.
.IP \&.De
Ends an unfilled display block (started by \*L\&.Ds\*O).
Also ends automatic centering, if it was in effect.
.IP \&.DE
Ends an unfilled display block (started by
\*L\&.DS\*O) and restores the left margin to the previous position.
.IP \&.Ds
Starts an unfilled display block.  Text between \*L\&.Ds\*O and
\*L\&.De\*O is printed in a roman typeface,
with `no fill' mode (no wrapping and blank lines allowed) in effect.
The display block is set flush left.
.IP \&.DS
Starts a display block
with `no fill' mode (no wrapping and blank lines allowed) in effect.
The display block is shifted right .5 inch for \*Lnroff\*O and
four picas for \*L*troff\*O formatters.
.IP \&.DT
Restores default tabs.  Default tabs are set to every 8 ens for \*Lnroff\*O
and to every \&.5 inches for \*L*troff\*O text formatters,
starting with \&.5i, 1i, \&... .
.IP \&.EE
Ends an example and restores basic text defaults and indents.
.IP "\&.EX [ \*Vi\*O ]"
Starts an example.  Text between
\*L\&.EX\*O
and
\*L\&.EE\*O
is printed in a constant width
font with `no fill' mode (no wrapping and blank lines allowed) in effect.
The example is set flush left unless an indent \*Vi\*O is specified.  Units
of \*Vi\*O are ens.
.IP "\&.G [ \*Vtext...\*O ]"
Sets \*Vtext\*O in a sans-serif typeface.  If no text is specified,
only the next source text line is set in a sans-serif typeface.
.IP "\&.GB [ \*Vwords...\*O ]"
Sets \*Vtext\*O in a sans-serif bold typeface.  If no text is specified,
only the next source text line is set in a sans-serif bold typeface.
.IP "\&.GL [ \*Vtext...\*O ]"
Sets \*Vtext\*O in a sans-serif italic typeface.  If no text is specified,
only the next source text line is set in a sans-serif italic typeface.
.IP "\&.HP [\|\*Vi\*O\|]\*O"
Begins a paragraph with a hanging indent of \*Vi\*O ens.
.IP "\&.I [ \*Vtext...\*O ]"
Sets \*Vtext\*O in an italic typeface.  If no text is specified,
only the next source text line is set in an italic typeface.
.IP "\&.I1 \*Vword\*O"
Sets a temporary indent to the length of the specified word.
.IP "\&.I2 \*Vword\*O"
Reverses one line and then sets a temporary indent to the length of
the specified word.
.IP "\&.IB \*Vword1 word2\*O [ \*Vwords...\*O ]"
Sets \*Vword1\*O in an italic typeface, \*Vword2\*O in boldface, and then
alternates between these two fonts for the remaining words, up to six
words.  Blanks between words are stripped unless the string is enclosed
in quotation marks (" ").
.IP "\&.IP \*Vx \*O[\|i\*O\|]\*O"
Sets the prevailing indent to \*Vi\*O.  Then begins the indented
paragraph with a hanging tag given by the next text line.  If the tag
does not fit, the macro places the next text on a separate line.
Tag \*Vx\*O appears in bold typeface.
.IP "\&.IR \*Vword1 word2\*O [ \*Vwords...\*O ]"
Sets \*Vword1\*O in an italic typeface, \*Vword2\*O in a roman typeface,
and then alternates between these two fonts for the remaining
words, up to six words.  Blanks between words are stripped unless the
string is enclosed in quotation marks (" ").
.\".IP \&.LP
.\"Same as the
.\"\*L\&.PP\*O
.\"macro.  This macro is obsolete, but is provided for backwards
.\"compatibility.
.IP "\&.MS \*Vreference_page section_subsection\*O [ \*Vpunctuation\*O ]"
Sets \*Vreference_page\*O immediately followed by \*Vsection_subsection\*O in
parentheses
followed by optional \*Vpunctuation\*O, using fonts that distinguish this
reference page reference from ordinary text.  For example,
\*Lman\*O(5).
.IP \&.NE
Ends a note. Also cancels automatic centering if it was in effect.
.IP "\&.NT [ \*Vheader1\*O ] [ \*LC\*O ]"
.ns
.IP "\&.NT [ \*LC\*O ] [ \*Vheader2\*O ]" 12
Starts a note.  If no arguments are specified, the default header for the
note is `Note'.
If the first argument is the letter `C',
all text in the note is
centered, for the next 99 text lines or until the
\*L\&.NE\*O
macro is called, whichever comes first.
If the first argument is not `C', it becomes the header of the
note, even if \*Vheader2\*O is also specified.
The \*Vheader2\*O argument becomes the
header of the note if the first argument is `C'.
.IP "\&.PD [ \*Vv\*O ]"
Sets the interparagraph distance to \*Vv\*O vertical spaces.  Resets
the distance to the default value if \*Vv\*O is omitted.
.IP "\&.PN \*Vx\*O [ \*Vy\*O ]"
Sets \*Vx\*O in an italic or constant width typeface (depending on
the
\*L*roff\*O
formatter type) and then reverts to the previous typeface.
The optional argument \*Vy\*O is appended to \*Vx\*O with
no space, but printed in the previous typeface.
The \*Vx\*O argument is usually a path name;
\*Vy\*O is usually punctuation.
.IP "\&.Pn \*Vx y\*O [ \*Vz\*O ]"
Sets \*Vx\*O in the current typeface, sets \*Vy\*O in an italic or constant
width typeface (depending on the
\*L*roff\*O
formatter type) and appends it to \*Vx\*O, and finally
reverts to the previous typeface.
The optional argument \*Vz\*O is appended to \*Vy\*O, but printed in the
previous typeface.  Spaces are removed between \*Vx\*O, \*Vy\*O, and \*Vz\*O,
unless quotation marks (" ") are used to enclose strings with spaces.
The \*Vx\*O argument is usually a fixed path name; \*Vy\*O is
usually a variable path name; and \*Vz\*O is usually punctuation.
.IP \&.PP
Starts a block paragraph.  Sets the prevailing indent to \&.5i for
\*Lnroff\*O and four picas for \*L*troff\*O text formatters.
.IP \&.R
Sets the text in a roman typeface until another font change is encountered.
Also ends
\*Lnroff\*O
underline mode if it was in effect.
.IP "\&.RB \*Vword1 word2\*O [ \*Vwords...\*O ]"
Sets \*Vword1\*O in a roman typeface, \*Vword2\*O in boldface, and
then alternates between these two fonts for the remaining
words, up to six words.
Blanks between words are stripped unless the string is enclosed in
quotation marks (" ").
.IP "\&.RE [ \*Vk\*O ]"
Returns to the \*Vk\*Oth relative right shift indent level.  (Restores the left
margin to the position prior to the \*Vk\*Oth
\*L\&.RS\*O
call).  Specifying \*Vk\*O=0 is equivalent to specifying \*Vk\*O=1.
If \*Vk\*O is omitted,
\*L\&.RE\*O
restores the left margin to the most recent previous position.
When \*Vk\*O=1 or 0,
the default
\*L\&.RS\*O
indent increment is restored.
.IP "\&.RI \*Vword1 word2\*O [ \*Vwords...\*O ]"
Sets \*Vword1\*O in a roman typeface, \*Vword2\*O in an italic typeface, and
then alternates between these two fonts for the remaining words, up to six
words.  Blanks between words are stripped unless the string is enclosed
in quotation marks (" ").
.IP \&.RN
Prints the return character indicator,
.RN
\&.
.IP "\&.RS [ \*Vi\*O ]"
Shifts the left margin to the right (relatively) the amount of \*Vi\*O ens. The
\*L\&.RS\*O
macro calls can be nested up to nine levels.  If \*Vi\*O is not specified for
the first
\*L\&.RS\*O
call, the relative right shift increases \&.5 inch for
\*Lnroff\*O
and four picas for
\*L*troff\*O
text formatters.
Nested
\*L\&.RS\*O
calls increment the relative indent by \*Vi\*O ens, or by \&.2 inch for
\*Lnroff\*O,
or by 2 picas for
\*L*troff\*O
text formatters.
.IP "\&.SH \*Vtext\*O"
Creates a section header.
.IP "\&.SM [ \*Vtext\*O ]"
Sets \*Vtext\*O to be two points smaller than the current point size.  If no
text is specified,
only the next source text line is set in the smaller point size.
.IP "\&.SS \*Vtext\*O"
Creates a subsection header.
.IP "\&.TH \*Vn c\*O[\*Vs\*O] [\*Vfc\*O] [\*Vfl\*O] [\*Vhc\*O] [\*Vo\*O] [\*Va\*O]"
Begins a new reference page and sets the page title.  Also sets up headers
and footers for printed
output pages, sets up all defaults and traps, and calls the
\*L\&.DT\*O and \*L\&.PD\*O macros.  The title appears as
a header on all pages of the formatted reference page. The
\*Vn\*O argument is the reference page name.
The \*Vc\*O argument is the primary section number or letter.
The \*Vs\*O argument is the subsection, if any.
The \*Vfc\*O argument is optional and specifies the text for the page foot
center.
The \*Vfl\*O argument is optional and specifies the text for the page foot
left.
The \*Vhc\*O argument is optional and specifies the text for the page head
center.
The \*Vo\*O argument is optional and
can be used for ``origin'' information; for
example, ``Free Software Foundation'' or ``X11R5.''
The \*Va\*O argument is optional and
can be used to specify the
machine architecture, for example ``RISC.''
.IP
Fields \*Vn\*O, \*Vc\*O, and \*Vs\*O appear together at the top of each
output page (see the top
of this page for an example).
These fields are displayed at both
the top left and right of the screen, or printed page.
Fields \*Vfc\*O and \*Vfl\*O are in effect only with the
\*Lman.page\*O macro package, or when using a \*L*troff\*O formatter.
Field \*Vhc\*O appears at the top center of each output page.
Field \*Vo\*O, the ``origin'' label,
appears under the reference page name and
section number, at the top left and right sides of the screen, or printed page.
Field \*Va\*O appears under the ``origin'' label, or
under the reference page name and section number if there is
no ``origin'' label,
at the top left and right sides of the screen, or printed page.
.\"Field \*Va\*O appears opposing the page name in the header when formatted
.\"with
.\"\*Lnroff\*O,
.\"but appears as a bleed tab when formatted with
.\"\*L*troff\*O
.\"text formatters.
.IP
The last five fields are optional.  To skip a field, specify a pair of
quotation marks ("") in the field to be skipped.
.IP "\&.TP [\|\*Vi\*O\|]\*O"
Sets the prevailing indent to \*Vi\*O.  Then begins the indented
paragraph with a hanging tag given by the next text line.  If the tag
does not fit, the macro places the next text on a separate line.
.IP "\&.UC [ \*L3\*O|\*L4\*O|\*L5\*O|\*L6\*O|\*L7\*O ]"
For \*L*troff\*O output only.  Specifies the text string to be
printed as the inside page footer.  No argument, or the number \*L3\*O,
specifies the text "3rd Berkeley Distribution."
The number \*L4\*O specifies the text "4th Berkeley Distribution."
The number \*L5\*O specifies the text "4.2 Berkeley Distribution."
The number \*L6\*O specifies the text "4.3 Berkeley Distribution."
The number \*L7\*O specifies the text "4.4 Berkeley Distribution."
.IP \&.VE
End a vertical margin bar.
.IP "\&.VS [ 4 ]"
Starts a vertical margin bar, if `4' is specified; otherwise, the
macro does nothing.
.PP
.iX "-]" "man macro package" "macros"
.SS Macros That Cause Line Breaks
The following macros cause line breaks:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l l l l l l.
De@DE@Ds@DS@EE@EX
HP@IP@PP@RE@SH@SS
TH@TP
.TE
.PP
.RE
.SS Macros That Need Text Lines
The following macros affect the following line of text if they are specified
in the input without arguments:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l l l l l l.
B@BI@BR@G@GB@GL
I@IB@IR@RI@RB@SH
SS@SM
.TE
.PP
.RE
.SS Defaults
Automatic hyphenation is turned on. However, \*Vlast\*O lines (ones that will
cause a trap) are not hyphenated and the last and first two characters of
a word are not split off.
.PP
Characters printed from the Special Font are artificially bolded by three units
whenever the current font is `3'.
.PP
The default page width is 77 columns for
\*Lnroff\*O output and 8.5 inches for output generated by
\*L*troff\*O text formatters.
For \*Lnroff\*O output, section headers and page headers
are output flush left, primary paragraphs are indented two columns,
and the maximum line length is a total of 77 columns for an effective
right margin of \&.3 inches.  This allows for printing on A4 paper.
Left and right page margins are 7.5 picas when
\*L*troff\*O text formatters are used.
.PP
The default page length is unlimited (unpaginated) for
\*Lnroff\*O output with the \*Lman\*O macros, and is 66 lines long for
\*Lnroff\*O with the \*Lman.page\*O macros.
The default page length is 11 inches for output generated by
\*L*troff\*O text formatters.
.PP
The \*L\&.TH\*O macro sets up the following defaults:
.IP \(bu 4
Text is set in ``noadjust'' mode; the right margin is ragged.
.IP \(bu 4
The default interparagraph distance is 1v for
\*Lnroff\*O and \&.5v for \*L*troff\*O text formatters.
.IP \(bu 4
The basic text indent is two columns for
\*Lnroff\*O
and four picas for
\*L*troff\*O
text formatters, from the left margin.
.IP \(bu 4
The maximum text line length is 7.5 inches for \*Lnroff\*O
and 36 picas for \*L*troff\*O text formatters.
.IP \(bu 4
Sets tab stops every 8 ens for \*Lnroff\*O and every \&.5 inches
for \*L*troff\*O text formatters.
.IP \(bu 4
The basic text point size is 11 points, with line spacing set to 12 points.
.IP \(bu 4
The basic text font is ``R'' (a roman typeface).
.IP \(bu 4
Reference page headers, section headers, and subsection headers are set
in a sans-serif bold typeface for \*L*troff\*O formatters.
.PP
There are no page footers for \*Lnroff\*O output with the \*Lman\*O
macros.  Page footers are printed when using \*L*troff\*O formatters,
and when using the \*Lman.page\*O macros with either \*Lnroff\*O
or \*L*troff\*O.
.PP
The default page number, when footers are printed, has the format:
.oS
name(c[s])-pg
.oE
where:
.VL 5m
.LI "name"
is the \*L\&.TH\*O \*Vn\*O argument
.LI "c[s]"
is the \*L\&.TH \*Vc\*O[\*Vs\*O] argument (section[subsection])
.LI "pg"
is the current page number
.LE
.PP
By default, the page number prints on the right side of the page foot.
.PP
When printing multiple pages, the page number is reset to ``1''
at the start of each new reference page.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
.SS Predefined Registers
The following registers are predefined by the
\*Lman\*O
macro packages and should not be changed:
.IP PO 12
Page offset and page margin
.IP IN
Left margin indent relative to the section headers
.IP LL
Line length including
\*LIN\*O
.IP PL
Page length
.PP
The register `l' is predefined when you specify the
\*L*roff\*O
\*L\-rl\*O
option. Its default value is 0.  The
\*Lman\*O(1)
command does not use this option.
.PP
The register `n' is predefined when you specify the \*L*roff
-rn\*O option.  Its default value is 0.  The \*Lman\*O(1)
command does not use this option.
.PP
The register `p' is predefined when you specify the
\*L*roff\*O
\*L\-rp\*O
option. Its default value is 0.  The
\*Lman\*O(1)
command does not use this option.
.PP
The register `v' is predefined when you specify the \*L*roff
-rv\*O option.  Its default value is 0.  The \*Lman\*O(1)
command does not use this option.
.SS Reserved Registers
The following registers are reserved for internal use by the
\*Lman\*O and \*Lman.page\*O macro packages:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l l l l l l l.
A1@d@DX@EX@l@m
p@p#@PF@pg@pn@v
y
.TE
.PP
.RE
In addition, registers beginning with the characters
`)', `]', and `}' are also reserved for internal use.
.\"
.\" At this moment the following registers are internally used:
.\"  }W }L PO ]C ]T
.\" p#
.\" )I )R )E )P
.\" )p ][1-9] )[1-9]
.\" EX PF
.\" p is reserved for \-rpS \-man.nopage and \-man.repro use.
.\"
.PP
Registers predefined by the \*Lnroff\*O(1), \*Lneqn\*O(1), and \*Ltbl\*O(1)
commands, and the \*L*eqn\*O and \*L*troff\*O
text preprocessors and formatters should not be redefined.
.SS Predefined Strings
The following strings are predefined by the
\*Lman\*O
macro package and should not be changed:
.IP lq 12
.ie n \{
\&\*(lq if
\*Lnroff\*O,
\&`` if
\*L*troff\*O
\}
.el \{
\&" if
\*Lnroff\*O,
\&\*(lq if
\*L*troff\*O
\}
.IP rq
.ie n \{
\&\*(rq if
\*Lnroff\*O,
\&'' if
\*L*troff\*O
\}
.el \{
\&" if
\*Lnroff\*O,
\&\*(rq if
\*L*troff\*O
\}
.IP S
Command string to change type size to 10 points.
.SS Reserved Strings and Macros
The following string and macro names are reserved for internal use by the
\*Lman\*O and \*Lman.page\*O macro packages:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l l l l l l.
##@A1@BD@BK@CD@D
HB@HH@ID@LD@NO@NX
P@TB@UF@ya@yn@yl
ys
.TE
.PP
.RE
In addition, names beginning with the characters
`)', `]', and `}' are also reserved for internal use.
.\"
.\" At this moment the following strings, macros, diversions are internally
.\" used:
.\" ]I ]R
.\" }1 }2
.\" }E }F }f }H }K }M }N }S }X
.\" ]B ]D ]H ]L ]W ]X
.\" ]I ]R
.\" }C
.\" ]F \" inside }S macro
.\" ]i ]r
.\" D \*V?\*OD
.\" ]S is defined in man.nopage and man.repro
.\" ]T is defined in man.repro
.\" NX is defined in man.repro
.\" ## A1 HH ya yn yl ys are defined in other tools
.\" BK is defined in man.repro for use by another tool
.\" UF is defined in man.repro
.\" D, ID, CD, LD, BD are reserved in case we need to add full DS/DE
.\"  support
.\" DS/DE are reserved in case we need backwards compatibility with BSD.
.\" P is reserved in case we need backwards compatibility with BSD and SysV.
.\" f. \" defined by tbl
.\"
.PP
Names predefined by the \*Lnroff\*O(1), \*Lneqn\*O(1), and
\*Ltbl\*O(1) commands, and the \*L*eqn\*O and \*L*troff\*O
text preprocessors and formatters should not be redefined.
.SS \&.TH Macro Restrictions
.if n .PP
Section numbers should only be
.\" 1-8, `n', `l', `o', or `p'.
those listed in the \*Lman\*O(1) reference page as recognized by
the \*Lman\*O(1) command.
.PP
Sections 5, 6, and the single-letter sections listed in the \*Lman\*O(1)
reference page normally do not have subsections, so none should be
specified.
.PP
Subsections ``.z'' and ``.Z'' are not valid and should never be used.
.PP
For \*Lnroff\*O output, keep the size of the reference page name, including
its section and subsection, to a maximum of 38 characters to prevent
overprinting in the reference page header.  Similarly, restrict the
size of the \*Vo\*O and \*Va\*O fields to a maximum of 38 characters.
If the \*Vhc\*O
field is used, reduce the size of the name, section, and
subsection fields by the size of the \*Vhc\*O field + 1.
.PP
The maximum sizes for the reference page name, \*Vo\*O and \*Va\*O
fields, are much shorter if the reference page is formatted with a
\*L*troff\*O formatter.
.\".PP
.\"Reference pages containing
.\"\*Ltbl\*O or \*Leqn\*O
.\"commands must be preprocessed by
.\"\*Ltbl\*O and \*Lneqn\*O
.\"text preprocessors before being installed on the system.
.\".PP
.\"Reference pages containing
.\"\*Ltbl\*O(1)
.\"commands must not be preprocessed before being installed on the system.
.SS The NAME Section
.if n .PP
The
\*Lcatman\*O
command assumes the NAME section of a reference page has the
following format:
.oS
name[, name, name ...] - explanatory text
.oE
There should be at least one space after any comma and only one space
following the ``hyphen'' (-).  A ``backslash hyphen'' (\e-) may
also be used to produce a longer dash.
.\"Avoid using \*L*roff\*O commands in the NAME section.
Avoid using macros or other markup to code information in the NAME section.
The explanatory text should be brief.
The \*Lcatman\*O
command combines information in the NAME section with parameters of the
\*L\&.TH\*O macro to create an entry in a database searched by the
\*Lapropos\*O(1), \*Lman\*O(1), and \*Lwhatis\*O(1) commands.
.SH PORTABILITY CONSIDERATIONS
.PP
The DEC OSF/1 \*Lman\*O
macro packages contain extensions and enhancements borrowed from
other macro packages.  If you need to write portable reference pages,
you should not use the following macros:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l l l l l l.
AT@CM@CT@CW@De@Ds
EE@EX@G@GB@GL@I1
I2@LP@MS@NE@NT@PN
Pn@R@RN@UC@UF
.TE
.PP
.RE
The \*L\&.LP\*O macro is obsolete,
but is provided for backward compatibility with other vendors.
.PP
The \*L\&.TH\*O
macro permits the use of the percent (%) character in any
of its fields.  The presence of the percent character may cause
problems for other implementations of this macro.
.PP
The width of the \*Lnroff\*O output is 77 columns, with a 2-column
indent, for an effective maximum line length of 75 columns.
On other systems, the width of the \*Lnroff\*O output may be only
65 columns, with a 5-column indent, for an effective maximum line
length of 60 columns.  Avoid creating tables and no-fill text
that require the full 75 columns available on DEC OSF/1.  Plan for
a maximum line length of 60 columns, instead.
.\".PP
.\"Use of the \*Ltbl\*O and \*L*eqn\*O
.\"commands should be avoided in a reference page source file,
.\"because the \*Lman\*O
.\"and \*Lcatman\*O commands do not preprocess source reference pages.
.\"If you must use \*Ltbl\*O and \*Leqn\*O commands in reference page
.\"sources,
.\"preprocess the sources before installing them on a DEC OSF/1 system.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.an\*O"
The \*Lman\*O macro package interface
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.an.new\*O"
The primary \*Lman\*O macros package
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.an6n\*O"
Old BSD V6 \*Lman\*O macros for \*Lnroff\*O
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.an6t\*O"
Old BSD V6 \*Lman\*O macros for \*Ltroff\*O
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.an.page\*O"
The \*Lman.page\*O macro package interface
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/tmac/tman.an.new.page\*O"
The primary \*Lman.page\*O macros package
.LE
.iX "-]" "man macro package"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcheckeq\*O(1), \*Lman\*O(1), \*Lneqn\*O(1),
\*Lnroff\*O(1), \*Ltbl\*O(1), \*Lcatman\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
