.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: me.5,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 23:24:15 $
.\"
.TH me 5
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lme\*O \- Macros for formatting papers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Lnroff \-me\*O [\*Voptions\*O] \*Vfile\*O  ...
.\" \*L*roff \-me\*O [\*Voptions\*O] \*Vfile\*O  ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\" .iX "*roff text processor" "me macro package"
.iX "nroff text processor" "me macro package"
.iX "me macro package"
.iX "technical paper" "formatting"
This package of \*Lnroff\*O
.\" and \*L*roff\*O
macro definitions provides a formatting facility for technical
papers in various formats.
When producing two-column output on a terminal, filter
the output through \*Lcol\*O.
.PP
Many \*Lnroff\*O
.\" and \*L*roff\*O
requests are unsafe in conjunction with this package; however, these
requests can be used with impunity after the first .pp:
.PP
.TS
tab(~);
l l .
\.bp~Begin a new page.
\.br~Break the output line here.
\.ce n~Center the next n lines.
\.ls n~Use line spacing: n=1 single, n=2 double space.
\.na~Do not justify (align) the right margin.
\.sp n~Insert n spacing lines.
\.sz +n~Add n to the point size.
\.ul n~Underline the next n lines.
.TE
.PP
Output of the \*Lneqn\*O and \*Ltbl\*O preprocessors
for equations and tables is acceptable as input.
.SH REQUESTS
.PP
.iX "me macro package" "requests"
In the following list, \*(lqinitialization\*(rq
refers to the first .pp, .lp, .ip, .np, .sh, or .uh macro.
This list is incomplete.
.PP
.ta \w'.eh \'x\'y\'z\'  'u +\w'Initial 'u +\w'Cause 'u
.br
.di x
 \ka
.br
.di
.in \nau
.ti0
\f3Request Initial Cause Explanation
.ti0
 Value Break\f1
.br
.in \nau
.ti0
\&.(b - yes Begin block.
.ti0
\&.(c - yes Begin centered block.
.ti0
\&.(d - no Begin delayed text.
.ti0
\&.(f - no Begin footnote.
.ti0
\&.(l - yes Begin list.
.ti0
\&.(q - yes Begin major quote.
.ti0
\&.(x \f2x\f1 - no Begin indexed item in index.
\*Vx\*O
.ti0
\&.(z - no Begin floating keep.
.ti0
\&.)b - yes End block.
.ti0
\&.)c - yes End centered block.
.ti0
\&.)d - yes End delayed text.
.ti0
\&.)f - yes End footnote.
.ti0
\&.)l - yes End list.
.ti0
\&.)q - yes End major quote.
.ti0
\&.)x - yes End index item.
.ti0
\&.)z - yes End floating keep.
.ti 0
\&.++ \f2m H\f1 - no Define paper section.
\*Vm\*O
defines the part of the paper, and can be \*LC\*O (chapter), \*LA\*O
(appendix), \*LP\*O (preliminary information,
for example, an abstract, table of contents, and so on), \*LB\*O
(bibliography), \*LRC\*O (chapters renumbered from page one each chapter),
or \*LRA\*O (appendix renumbered from page one).
.ti 0
\&.+c \f2T\f1 - yes Begin chapter (or appendix, etc., as
set by .++).
\*VT\*O
is the chapter title.
.ti0
\&.1c 1 yes One-column format on a new page.
.ti0
\&.2c 1 yes Two-column format.
.ti0
\&.EN - yes Space after equation
produced by
.\" .I eqn or
.IR neqn .
.ti0
\&.EQ \f2x y\f1 - yes Precede equation; break out and
add space.
Equation number is
.IR y .
The optional argument \f2x\f1
may be
\*VI\*O
to indent equation (default),
\*VL\*O
to left-adjust the equation, or
\*VC\*O
to center the equation.
.ti0
\&.TE - yes End table.
.ti0
\&.TH - yes End heading section of table.
.ti0
\&.TS \f2x\f1 - yes Begin table; if \f2x\f1 is \*LH\*O,
table has repeated heading.
.ti 0
\&.ac \f2A N\f1 - no Set up for ACM style output.
\*VA\*O
is the Author's name(s),
\*VN\*O
is the total number of pages.
Must be given before the first initialization.
.ti0
\&.b \f2x\f1 no no Print
\*Vx\*O
in boldface; if there is no argument, switch to boldface.
.ti 0
\&.ba \f2+n\f1 0 yes Augments the base indent by
\*Vn.\*O
This indent is used to set the indent on regular text
(like paragraphs).
.ti0
\&.bc no yes Begin new column.
.ti0
\&.bi \f2x\f1 no no Print
\*Vx\*O
in bold italics (nofill only).
.ti0
\&.bx \f2x\f1 no no Print \f2x\f1 in a box (nofill only).
.ti 0
\&.ef \f2\'x\'y\'z\'\f1 \'\'\'\' no Set even footer to x  y  z.
.ti 0
\&.eh \f2\'x\'y\'z\'\f1 \'\'\'\' no Set even header to x  y  z.
.ti 0
\&.fo \f2\'x\'y\'z\'\f1 \'\'\'\' no Set footer to x  y  z.
.ti 0
\&.hx - no Suppress headers and footers on next page.
.ti0
\&.he \f2\'x\'y\'z\'\f1 \'\'\'\' no Set header to x  y  z.
.ti0
\&.hl - yes Draw a horizontal line.
.ti0
\&.i \f2x\f1 no no Italicize
\*Vx;\*O
if
\*Vx\*O
missing, italic text follows.
.ti0
\&.ip \f2x y\f1 no yes Start indented paragraph,
with hanging tag
.IR x .
Indentation is
\*Vy\*O
ens (default 5).
.ti0
\&.lp yes yes Start left-blocked paragraph.
.ti 0
\&.lo - no Read in a file of local macros of the
form
.BI \&.* x.
Must be given before initialization.
.ti0
\&.np 1 yes Start numbered paragraph.
.ti 0
\&.of \f2\'x\'y\'z\'\f1 \'\'\'\' no Set odd footer to x  y  z.
.ti 0
\&.oh \f2\'x\'y\'z\'\f1 \'\'\'\' no Set odd header to x  y  z.
.ti 0
\&.pd - yes Print delayed text.
.ti0
\&.pp no yes Begin paragraph.
First line indented.
.ti0
\&.r yes no Roman text follows.
.ti 0
\&.re - no Reset tabs to default values.
.ti 0
\&.sc no no Read in a file of special characters
and diacritical marks.
Must be given before initialization.
.ti0
\&.sh \f2n x\f1 - yes Section head follows,
font automatically bold.
\*Vn\*O
is level of section,
\*Vx\*O
is title of section.
.ti 0
\&.sk no no Leave the next page blank.
Only one page is remembered ahead.
.ti 0
\&.sz \f2+n\f1 10p no Augment the point size by
\*Vn\*O
points.
.ti 0
\&.th no no Produce the paper in thesis format.
Must be given before initialization.
.ti 0
\&.tp no yes Begin title page.
.ti0
\&.u \f2x\f1 - no Underline argument (even in \f2*roff\f1).
(Nofill only).
.ti0
\&.uh - yes Like .sh, but unnumbered.
.ti0
\&.xp \f2x\f1 - no Print index
\*Vx.\*O
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 15m
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.e\*O"
The \*Lme\*O macro package source file
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/me/*\*O"
Supplemental \*Lme\*O macros.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lcol\*O(1), \*Lneqn\*O(1), \*Lnroff\*O(1),  \*Ltbl\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
