.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rsml.5,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/16 22:50:42 $
.\" 
.TH rsml 5
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lrsml\*O, \*Lsml\*O \- \*Lrsml\*O and \*Lsml\*O macro packages that support RSML-coded reference pages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ltbl \*Vfile\*O ... \*L| neqn | nroff \-h \*O[\*Vflags\*O] \*L\-man | \*O...
.nL
\*Ltbl \*Vfile\*O ... \*L| neqn | nroff \-h \*O[\*Vflags\*O]
\*L\-man.page | \*O...
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "rsml macro package"
.iX "sml macro package"
.iX "man command" "rsml macro package"
.iX "troff text processor" "rsml macro package"
.iX "nroff text processor" "rsml macro package"
.iX "reference page" "formatting"
Reference pages that originate from the OSF and those
created for DEC OSF/1 by Digital are coded using
\*LRSML\*O (Reference Semantic Markup Language).
This markup is implemented through a combination of two
macro packages, \*Lsml\*O and \*Lrsml\*O.
In addition, certain macros and requests supported for
\*LRSML\*O coding are defined in the
\*Ltmac.an\*O (\*Lman\*O) macro package.
.PP
To use \*LRSML\*O coding in a reference
page, include the following as the first two lines of the
reference page source file:
.sS
\*L\&.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml\*O
.nL
\*L\&.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml\*O
.sE
.PP
Make sure these lines are included in the order shown; some \*Lrsml\*O
macro definitions are intended to overwrite definitions in the
\*Lsml\*O and \*Lman\*O macro sets.
You can format a reference page manually using the command line
shown in the SYNOPSIS section; specify one of the following
flags on your command line:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-man\*O"
To process the reference page
for unpaginated viewing or for printing on ASCII printers
.LI "\*L\-man.page\*O"
To process the reference
page for paginated ASCII output
.LE
.PP
Do not specify a \*L.so\*O entry in a reference page source file
to include the \*Ltmac.an\*O or \*Ltmac.an.page\*O
macros from the \*L/usr/share/lib/tmac\*O directory.
The \*Lman\*O and \*Lcatman\*O commands automatically
specify the \*L-man\*O flag to \*Lnroff\*O when they
process reference page source files; you should
follow the same convention when formatting reference pages directly
with \*L*roff\*O commands.
.PP
The \*Vfile\*O argument in the command line is the name of the
reference page source file.
.SS FLAGS
.if n .PP
The following \*Vflags\*O descriptions contain information
about \*L*troff\*O output.  This is provided for completeness,
only.  Digital does not supply or support any \*L*troff\*O formatters.
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-h\*O"
Uses output tabs during horizontal spacing to speed output and reduce
output character count.  Tab settings are assumed to be every eight
nominal character widths.
.LI "\*L-n\*VN\*O"
Numbers the first generated page as \*VN\*O.
.sp
Ignored by the \*L*sml\*O macros for \*Lnroff\*O output.
Ignored for \*L*troff\*O output unless \*L-rp\*VS\*O is also specified.
.LI "\*L-rl\*VN\*O"
Turns on line double-spacing mode if \*VN\*O is greater than 0.
.LI "\*L-rn\*VN\*O"
Numbers the first generated page as \*VN\*O.
Page numbers always print on the outside end of the page footer.
.sp
Ignored by the \*L*sml\*O macros for \*Lnroff\*O output.
.LI "\*L-rp\*VS\*O"
Sets the section number to \*VS\*O.  Section numbers appear in
output page footers as \*VS\*O\-\*VN\*O (chapter\-page-number).
.sp
Page numbers always print on the outside end of the page footer.
Starting page number defaults to ``1'' unless \*L-n\*VN\*O
or \*L-rn\*VN\*O is also specified.
.sp
Ignored by the \*L*sml\*O macros for \*Lnroff\*O output.
.LI "\*L-rv2\*O"
Prints crop marks.  Only for use with \*L*troff\*O formatters.
.LE
.SS Macros
.if n .PP
.iX "rsml macro package" "macros"
.iX "sml macro package" "macros"
This section describes the macros used to mark up reference
pages in Reference Semantic Markup Language (RSML).
.PP
Note that some of the macro descriptions contain information
about \*L*troff\*O output.  This is provided for completeness,
only.  Digital does not supply or support
any \*L*troff\*O formatters.
.PP
Any \*Vtext\*O, \*Vphrase\*O, or \*Vtitle\*O
argument in the following macro descriptions can consist of more than one word.
Use quotation marks (" ") to enclose an argument containing more
than a single word.
.PP
Note that
the \*L\&.ds\*O, \*L\&.EN\*O, \*L\&.EQ\*O, \*L\&.ne\*O, \*L\&.PE\*O, \*L\&.PS\*O, \*L\&.T\*O, \*L\&.TE\*O, and \*L\&.TS\*O
macros are used in \*LRSML\*O markup but are implemented through the
\*Ltmac.an\*O (man) macro package.
.VL 4m
.LI "\&.AL"
Starts a numbered list.  Use the \*L\&.LI\*O macro to identify
the list items.  Use the \*L\&.LE\*O macro to end the list.
.LI "\&.cE"
Ends a comment section.
.LI "\&.cS"
Begins a comment section.
Text between a \*L\&.cS\*O and a \*L\&.cE\*O macro does
not appear in the output.
.LI "\&.dI \*Vsubdocument\*O"
Includes a \*Vsubdocument\*O containing \*LRSML\*O markup.
.LI "\&.dE"
Ends a type declaration section.
.LI "\&.dS [\*Varg-type\*O]"
Starts a type declaration section.  Use within
a function definition section (\*L\&.fS\*O/\*L\&.fE\*O).
Use the optional \*Varg-type\*O argument to specify
the argument type.  Place the parameter name on a line
between the \*L\&.dS\*O and \*L\&.dE\*O macros.
Imbed the \*L.fS\*O/\*L.fE\*O and \*L.dS\*O/\*L.dE\*O macro pairs
within an \*L.sS\*O/\*L.sE\*O region.
.LI "\&.ds \*Vstring text\*O"
Defines a string.  The argument \*Vstring\*O is one or two characters.
Use the \*L\e*\*Vstring\*O construct to cause a single-character
string to be replaced by the specified \*Vtext\*O in the output.
Use the \*L\e*(\*Vstring\*O construct to cause a two-character
string to be replaced by the specified \*Vtext\*O in the output.
.LI "\&.E, \*Vphrase text\*O"
Sets \*Vphrase\*O in the font selected for emphasis, generally
italics.  The \*Vphrase\*O is followed by \*Vtext\*O set in the
normal font with no intervening space.
.LI "\&.,E \*Vtext phrase\*O"
Sets \*Vphrase\*O in the font selected for emphasis, generally
italics.  The \*Vphrase\*O is preceded by \*Vtext\*O set in the
normal font with no intervening space.
.LI "\&.EC \*Vtitle\*O"
Sets the \*Vtitle\*O argument as the caption for an equation.
.LI "\&.eI \*Vsubdocument\*O"
Includes an example \*Vsubdocument\*O.  No \*Ltroff\*O commands
in the subdocument are processed.  The subdocument can contain
backslash (\e) characters and lines beginning with a period.  The
subdocument is treated as a display; line breaks in the subdocument
cause line breaks in the output document.
.LI "\&.eM \*Vtext\*O"
Sets \*Vtext\*O in the font selected for emphasis, generally italics.
.LI "\&.EN"
Ends a section containing one or more equations.
.LI "\&.EQ"
Starts a section containing one or more equations.
.LI "\&.EX \*Vtitle\*O"
Sets the \*Vtitle\*O argument as the caption for an example.
.LI "\&.FG \*Vtitle\*O"
Sets the \*Vtitle\*O argument as the caption for a figure.
.LI "\&.fE"
Ends a function definition section.
.LI "\&.fS"
Starts a function definition section.
Use the type declaration macros (\*L.dS\*O/\*L.dE\*O) within the
function definition macros (\*L.fS\*O/\*L.fE\*O).
Imbed the \*L.fS\*O/\*L.fE\*O and \*L.dS\*O/\*L.dE\*O macro pairs
within an \*L.sS\*O/\*L.sE\*O region.
.LI "\&.iE"
Ends a user command input region.
.LI "\&.iS"
Starts a user command input region.  When a section is designed
to show user command input, use the \*L.iS\*O/\*L.iE\*O markup.  This region
is not a display.  It continues to the next page, if needed.  To ensure
that a user command input region is not continued over a page
boundary, use the \*L.ne\*O command to check for enough
space on the current page.
The default font for an \*L.iS\*O/\*L.iE\*O region is \e*L.
.LI "\&.iX  \*O[""""\-\*Vflags\*O""""] """"\*Vprimary\*O"""" [""""\*Vsecondary\*O""""|""""\*Vcross-reference\*O""""]"
Creates an index entry.  The \*Vprimary\*O entry is required; the
\*Vflags\*O and other entries are optional.  The flags are as follows:
.RS
.VL 0.5i
.LI "\*L!\*O"
Highlight an entry as the main entry for this topic.
.LI "\*L[\*O"
Start a page range for this topic.
.LI "\*L]\*O"
End a page range for this topic.
.LI "\*L:\*O"
Specify use of \*VSee other-entry-name\*O instead of a page number.
.LI "\*L;\*O"
Specify use of \*VSee also other-entry-name\*O instead of a page number.
.LE
.sp
If used, the flags \*L:\*O or \*L;\*O must appear last.  The flag
\*L!\*O may be used with \*L[\*O, \*L:\*O, or \*L;\*O \(em no other
combination is meaningful.
.RE
.LI "\&.K, \*Vkey text\*O"
Sets the \*Vkey\*O argument in the bold font and encloses it in
angle brackets.  The \*Vkey\*O name is followed by \*Vtext\*O set in the
normal font with no intervening space.  Use this macro when you have
ordinary text immediately following the keyboard key name.
.LI "\&.,K \*Vtext key\*O"
Sets the \*Vkey\*O argument in the bold font and encloses it in
angle brackets.  The \*Vkey\*O name is preceded by \*Vtext\*O set in the
normal font with no intervening space.  Use this macro when you have
ordinary text immediately preceding the keyboard key name.
.LI "\&.kY \*Vkey\*O"
Sets the \*Vkey\*O argument in the bold font and encloses it in
angle brackets.  Use this macro to display the name of a keyboard key.
.LI "\&.LE"
Ends a list started by \*L\&.AL\*O, \*L\&.ML\*O, or \*L\&.VL\*O.
.LI "\&.LI [\*Vphrase\*O]"
Marks an item in a list started by \*L\&.AL\*O, \*L\&.ML\*O,
or \*L\&.VL\*O.  For lists started by \*L\&.AL\*O and \*L\&.ML\*O,
place the list item on the lines following the \*L\&.LI\*O macro.
The \*L\&.VL\*O macro starts a two-column list; place the left-column
entry on the same line as the \*L\&.LI\*O macro, surrounded by double
quotes (" ").  Because the double quote character delimits the
left-column entry, you must enter four double quotes ("""")
to print any double quote character that is part of the left-column
entry. Place the right-column entry starting on the line
below the \*L\&.LI\*O macro.
.LI "\&.ML"
Starts a marked list.  Use the \*L\&.LI\*O macro to identify
the list items.  Use the \*L\&.LE\*O macro to end the list.
.LI "\&.ne \*Vx\*O"
Starts a new page if fewer than \*Vx\*O number of lines remain on the
current page.
.LI "\&.nL"
Forces a line break.
.LI "\&.nP"
Forces a page break.
.LI "\&.oE"
Ends a system output example region.
.LI "\&.oS"
Starts a system output example region.  When a section is designed
to show system output or a file listing,
use the \*L.oS\*O/\*L.oE\*O markup.  This region
is not a display.  It continues to the next page, if needed.  To ensure
that a system output example region is not continued over a page
boundary, use the \*L.ne\*O command to check for enough
space on the current page.
The default font for an \*L.oS\*O/\*L.oE\*O region is \*L\e*C\*O.
.LI "\&.PE"
Ends a \*Lpic\*O drawing.
.\" pI is not supported for Tin
.\".LI "\&.pI \*Vsubdocument\*O"
.\"Includes an encapsulated PostScript \*Vsubdocument\*O.
.LI "\&.PP"
Starts a block paragraph.  Sets the prevailing indent to \&.5i for
\*Lnroff\*O and four picas for \*L*troff\*O text formatters.
.LI "\&.PS"
Starts a \*Lpic\*O drawing; for use with \*L*troff\*O text formatters only.
.LI "\&.rE [ \*Vk\*O ]"
Returns to the \*Vk\*Oth relative right shift indent level.  (Restores the left
margin to the position prior to the \*Vk\*Oth \*L\&.rS\*O
call).  Specifying \*Vk\*O=0 is equivalent to specifying \*Vk\*O=1.
If \*Vk\*O is omitted, \*L\&.rE\*O
restores the left margin to the most recent previous position.
When \*Vk\*O=1 or 0, the default \*L\&.rS\*O
indent increment is restored.
.LI "\&.rS [ \*Vi\*O ]"
Shifts the left margin to the right (relatively) the amount of \*Vi\*O ens.
The \*L\&.rS\*O macro calls can be nested up to nine levels.  If \*Vi\*O is
not specified for the first \*L\&.rS\*O call, the relative right shift
increases \&.5 inch for \*Lnroff\*O and four picas for \*L*troff\*O
text formatters.  Nested \*L\&.rS\*O calls increment the relative indent
by \*Vi\*O ens, or by \&.2 inch for \*Lnroff\*O, or by 2 picas for
\*L*troff\*O text formatters.
.LI "\&.sE"
Ends a synopsis definition.
.LI "\&.SH \*Vtext\*O"
Creates a section header.
.LI "\&.SS \*Vtext\*O"
Creates a subsection header.
.LI "\&.sS"
Starts a synopsis definition.
When coding function prototypes, imbed the \*L.fS\*O/\*L.fE\*O and
\*L.dS\*O/\*L.dE\*O macro pairs within an \*L.sS\*O/\*L.sE\*O region.
If you use the \*L.iS\*O/\*L.iE\*O macros to code a function prototype,
imbed the \*L.iS\*O/\*L.iE\*O macros within the \*L.sS\*O/\*L.sE\*O region.
To code a command synopsis, start the synopsis with the \*L.sS\*O macro,
code the command line with \*L\e*L\*O, \*L\e*V\*O, and \*L\e*O\*O text
markup, and end the synopsis with the \*L.sE\*O macro.
.LI "\&.T&"
Changes the format of columns within a table.  Follow the table
continue request (\*L.T&\*O) with the new format line and then
the column data.
.LI "\&.TB \*Vtitle\*O"
Sets the title for a table.
.LI "\&.TE"
Ends a table.
.LI "\&.TH \*Vn c\*O[\*Vs\*O] [\*Vfc\*O] [\*Vfl\*O] [\*Vhc\*O] [\*Vo\*O] [\*Va\*O]"
Begins a new reference page and sets the page title.  Also sets up headers
and footers for printed output pages and sets up all defaults and traps.
The title appears as a header on all pages of the formatted reference page. The
\*Vn\*O argument is the reference page name.
The \*Vc\*O argument is the primary section number or letter.
The \*Vs\*O argument is the subsection, if any.
The \*Vfc\*O argument is optional and specifies the text for the page foot
center.
The \*Vfl\*O argument is optional and specifies the text for the page foot
left.
The \*Vhc\*O argument is optional and specifies the text for the page head
center.
The \*Vo\*O argument is optional and
can be used for ``origin'' information; for
example, ``Free Software Foundation'' or ``X11R5.''
The \*Va\*O argument is optional and
can be used to specify the
machine architecture, for example ``Alpha AXP.''
.IP
Fields \*Vn\*O, \*Vc\*O, and \*Vs\*O appear together at the top of each
output page (see the top
of this page for an example).
These fields are displayed at both
the top left and right of the screen, or printed page.
Fields \*Vfc\*O and \*Vfl\*O are in effect only with the
\*Lman.page\*O macro package, or when using a \*L*troff\*O formatter.
Field \*Vhc\*O appears at the top center of each output page.
Field \*Vo\*O, the ``origin'' label,
appears under the reference page name and
section number, at the top left and right sides of the screen, or printed page.
Field \*Va\*O appears under the ``origin'' label, or
under the reference page name and section number if there is
no ``origin'' label,
at the top left and right sides of the screen, or printed page.
.\"Field \*Va\*O appears opposing the page name in the header when formatted
.\"with
.\"\*Lnroff\*O,
.\"but appears as a bleed tab when formatted with
.\"\*L*troff\*O
.\"text formatters.
.IP
The last five fields are optional.  To skip a field, specify a pair of
quotation marks ("") in the field to be skipped.
.\" tH not yet implemented.
.\".IP \&.tH
.\"Ends the heading section of a table.
.LI "\&.TS"
Starts a table.
.LI "\&.VL \*Vindent\*O"
Starts a two-column list.  Specify the \*Vindent\*O for the list
in \*Li\*O inches, \*Lc\*O centimeters, or in \*Lm\*O ems.
Follow the \*L.VL\*O macro with the list item (\*L.LI\*O) macro.
Place the left-column
entry on the same line as the \*L\&.LI\*O macro, surrounded by double
quotes (" ").  If the left-column entry is a phrase, code a backslash
before each space to prevent the formatter from using
the spaces when it calculates the justification for the first line.
If the left-column entry is longer than the specified \*Vindent\*O, code the
\*L.nL\*O macro on the line following the \*L.LI\*O macro to force
the right-column entry onto a new line.
Place the right-column entry starting on the line
below the \*L\&.LI\*O macro, or on the line below the \*L.nL\*O macro,
if used.
.LE
.SS Meaningful Text Markup
.if n .PP
The following describes the text markup that can be used in
a source file to change the font for conveying the semantic meaning of
the text.
.PP
.TS
tab(~);
lfHB lfHB lfHB lfHB
l l l l.
_
.sp
Markup~Semantic Meaning~Examples~Font Produced
.sp
_
\*L\e*L\*O~Literal text~T{
User command input, command names, glossary term in text
T}~Bold
.sp
\*L\e*V\*O~Variable text~T{
User-supplied term
T}~Italic
.sp
\*L\e*O\*O~Ordinary text~T{
Returns the font to normal; use after a font change
T}~Roman font
.sp
\*L\e*C\*O~Computer output~T{
System output, file listing
T}~Constant width
.sp
\*L\e*E\*O~Emphasized text~T{
Book title, emphasized term
T}~Italic
.sp
\*L\e*A\*O~Alphabetic constant~T{
Error constant
T}~Constant width
.sp
\*L\e*N\*O~Numeric constant~T{
Error constant
T}~Constant width
.sp
_
.TE
.SS Macros That Need Text Lines
.if n .PP
The following macros affect the following line of text if they are specified
in the input without arguments:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l l.
\&.SH@\&.SS
.TE
.PP
.RE
.SS Defaults
.if n .PP
For a list of defaults, see the \*Lman\*O(5) reference page.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Using \*Lman\*O macros not described in this reference
page in the same source file with macros that are described in this
reference page can give undesirable results.
.PP
For a list of predefined registers, reserved registers, predefined
strings, and reserved strings and macros for the \*Lman\*O and
\*Lman.page\*O macro packages, see the \*Lman\*O(5)
reference page.
.PP
In addition, the following sections describe the \*LRSML\*O
reserved registers, reserved strings, internal macros, and macro
names reserved for future use.
.SS RSML Reserved Registers
.if n .PP
The following registers are reserved for internal use by the
macro packages for \*LRSML\*O:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l l l l l l.
%\*Vn\*O@#\*Vn\*O@Ll@$A@$M@$U
|A@|B@|Q@!x@!+@!%
.TE
.PP
.SS Predefined Strings
.if n .PP
The following strings are predefined for
\*LRSML\*O markup and should not be changed:
.IP lq 12
.ie n \{\
\&\*(lq if
\*Lnroff\*O,
\&`` if
\*L*troff\*O
\}
.el \{\
\&" if
\*Lnroff\*O,
\&\*(lq if
\*L*troff\*O
\}
.IP rq
.ie n \{\
\&\*(rq if
\*Lnroff\*O,
\&'' if
\*L*troff\*O
\}
.el \{\
\&" if
\*Lnroff\*O,
\&\*(rq if
\*L*troff\*O
\}
.SS RSML Reserved Strings and Macros
.if n .PP
The following string and macro names are reserved for internal use by the
macro packages that implement \*LRSML\*O:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l l l l l l l l l.
%\*Vn\*O@#\*Vn\*O@\&.e:@\&.e;@\&.e,@\&.P#@\&.SP@\&.!~@\&.)F
.TE
.PP
The following string names are reserved for \*LRSML\*O users:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l l l l l l l l.
A@C@E@L@N@O@U@V
.TE
.PP
.SS RSML Macro Names Reserved for Future Use
.if n .PP
The following macro names are reserved for future use by
\*LRSML\*O users:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l l l l l l l l l.
\&.aE@\&.aS@\&.lE@\&.lS@\&.P!@\&.pI@\&.pM@\&.tH@\&.wH
.TE
.PP
.SS \&.TH Macro Restrictions
.if n .PP
Section numbers should only be
.\" 1-8, `n', `l', `o', or `p'.
those listed in the \*Lman\*O(1) reference page as recognized by
the \*Lman\*O(1) command.
.PP
Sections 5, 6, and the single-letter sections listed in the \*Lman\*O(1)
reference page normally do not have subsections, so none should be
specified.
.PP
Subsections ``.z'' and ``.Z'' are not valid and should never be used.
.PP
For \*Lnroff\*O output, keep the size of the reference page name, including
its section and subsection, to a maximum of 38 characters to prevent
overprinting in the reference page header.  Similarly, restrict the
size of the \*Vo\*O and \*Va\*O fields to a maximum of 38 characters.
If the \*Vhc\*O
field is used, reduce the size of the name, section, and
subsection fields by the size of the \*Vhc\*O field + 1.
.PP
The maximum sizes for the reference page name, \*Vo\*O and \*Va\*O
fields, are much shorter if the reference page is formatted with a
\*L*troff\*O formatter.
.SS The NAME Section
.if n .PP
The \*Lcatman\*O(1) command assumes the NAME section of a reference page
has the following format:
.PP
.oS
name[, name, name ...] - explanatory text
.oE
.PP
There should be at least one space after any comma and only one space
following the ``hyphen'' (-).  A ``backslash hyphen'' (\e-) may
also be used to produce a longer dash.
.\"Avoid using \*L*roff\*O commands in the NAME section.
Avoid using Return characters, macros, or markup other than
\e*L and \e*O to
code information in the NAME section entry.
The explanatory text in this entry should be brief.
The \*Lcatman\*O
command combines information in the NAME section with parameters of the
\*L\&.TH\*O macro to create an entry in a database searched by the
\*Lapropos\*O, \*Lman -k\*O, and \*Lwhatis\*O commands.
Unrecognized markup, use of the wildcard character (*), or unexpected
Return characters in the NAME section
cause errors or incorrect results when the \*Lwhatis\*O database is
created or searched.
.\".SS Preprocessors
.\"Use of the \*Ltbl\*O(1) and \*L*eqn\*O
.\"commands should be avoided in a reference page source file,
.\"because the \*Lman\*O(1)
.\"and \*Lcatman\*O(1) commands do not preprocess source reference pages.
.\"If you must use \*Ltbl\*O and \*Leqn\*O commands in reference page sources,
.\"preprocess the sources before installing them on a DEC OSF/1 system.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml\*O"
.nL
\*LRSML\*O macros
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/tmac/sml\*O"
.nL
\*LSML\*O macros
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.an\*O"
.nL
\*Lman\*O macros for unpaginated output
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.an.page\*O"
.nL
\*Lman\*O macros for paginated output
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcheckeq\*O(1),
\*Lman\*O(1), \*Lneqn\*O(1),
\*Lnroff\*O(1), \*Ltbl\*O(1), \*Lcatman\*O(8).
.PP
Files:  \*Lman\*O(5).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
