.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ucontext.5,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/10 18:40:03 $
.\"
.TH ucontext 5
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lucontext\*O \- user context
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <ucontext.h>\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX ucontext structure
The thread of control within an executing process is specified
by the \*Lucontext\*O structure.  This structure contains at
least the following members:
.PP
.sS
    \*Lucontext_t  \*Vuc_link\*L
.nL
       sigset_t    \*Vuc_sigmask\*L
.nL
       stack_t     \*Vuc_stack\*L
.nL
       mcontext_t  \*Vuc_mcontext\*O
.sE
.PP
The values for each member is as follows:
.VL
.LI "\*Vuc_link\*O"
Points to the context that is to continue when this context returns.
If \*Vuc_link\*O is equal to zero (0), this is the main context, and
the process exits when this context returns.
.LI "\*Vuc_sigmask\*O"
Specifies the set of signals that are blocked when this context is
active.  See \*Lsigprocmask\*O(2) for more information.
.LI "\*Vuc_stack\*O"
Specifies the stack used by this context.  See \*Lsigaltstack\*O(2)
for more information.
.LI "\*Vuc_mcontext\*O"
Contains the saved machine registers and any implementation-specific context data.
.LE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Portable applications should not access or modify the \*Vuc_mcontext\*O
value in the \*Lucontext\*O structure.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lgetcontext\*O(2), \*Lsigaction\*O(2), \*Lsigprocmask\*O(2),
\*Lsigaltstack\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
