Help for Modify Audit Collection Maximum Sensitivity Level 

This window lets you select the maximum sensitivity level for the audit
subsystem.  There is a corresponding screen to modify the Audit Collection
Minimum Sensitivity Level.  Only audit data from processes whose sensitivity 
level is between the minimum and maximum are collected by the audit subsystem.

Set the sensitivity level by typing it into the text input field or by 
selecting it from the Classifications and Compartments boxes.  

When you start typing a sensitivity level into the text input field, the 
"OK" button becomes a "Check" button.  You must click on the "Check" button 
to verify the sensitivity level before it can be saved.  If there is an 
error in the sensitivity level, the text input cursor is placed at the 
character preceding the error.  If you are in typing mode, you must click 
on the "Check" button before you can select a compartment or classification 
from the boxes.  

To select a classification from the Classifications box, or compartments
from the Compartments box, click on the classification or compartments you
want to select (or on their buttons).  When you make a selection, that
classification or compartment appears in the text input field and the button 
is highlighted.  Click on a highlighted button to deselect it.  

If a compartment has an associated minimum classification and the current 
classification is lower than the associated classification, then selecting 
the compartment also selects the associated minimum classification.  

If a classification or compartment is not valid with the current set of 
compartments, then that classification or compartment is dimmed and cannot
be selected.  

You may cancel the window at any time by selecting the "Cancel" button.  
Selecting the "OK" button brings up a confirmation box so that you can 
confirm your actions.  
