Help for Create New Reports

This window lets you create a new report by applying a report selection file 
to an audit session.  

The Audit Session Files box contains a list of each audit session created by 
the Audit subsystem.  The Report Selection Files box contains a list of each 
available selection file.  The Report Name box lets you specify the name of 
the report you want to create.  

From the Audit Session Files box select the audit session on which you want 
information.  From the Report Selection Files box select the report selection 
file you want applied to the audit session.  If scroll bars are present, you 
can scroll either box until the audit session or selection file that you want 
is shown, then click on your selection.  To change your selection, click on 
another audit session or selection file.  

You must select one audit session and one selection file.  If you do not make 
a selection in each box, the software reminds you to do so.  

When you have made your selections, enter a report name in the Report Name 
box to identify the report you are creating.  This is a text input field.  
Enter any legal file name for a report name.  

When you have selected an audit session file and a report selection file, and 
given the report a name, click on "OK" to generate the report.  When you do, 
the Audit subsystem displays a second window with the contents of the report 
and the name of the report at the top of the window.  Here, you can view 
and/or print the report.  

Use the scroll bar to scroll through the report.  To print this report, click 
on the "Print" box.  

When you have finished viewing and/or printing this report, click on "OK."  
The system returns you to the Create New Reports window.  Your most recent 
audit session file, report selection file, and report name remain highlighted 
until you exit the Audit subsystem.  

You can either create another report or select "Cancel" to return to the main 
menubar.  
