Help for Modify Kernel Authorizations 

This window lets you set kernel authorizations and base privileges for a user 
account.  Your selections here override the system defaults.  A highlighted 
set button indicates that the kernel authorization or base privilege is 
granted to the user.  

To confer a kernel authorization or base privilege to a user, select 
(highlight) that authorization's set button.  To retract the kernel 
authorization or base privilege from a user, deselect (unhighlight) that 
authorization's set button.  

Whenever you change a single set button, the software automatically deselects 
(unhighlights) all the default buttons for that group.  That is, it deselects 
either all the kernel authorizations default buttons or all the base 
privileges default buttons depending on which group you changed.  

Although the default buttons are deselected, the set buttons still indicate 
the current setting -- whether or not the kernel authorization or base 
privilege is granted to the user.  These settings are no longer associated 
with the system defaults; if the system defaults change, these settings do 
not change.  

For each group (kernel authorizations or base privileges), either accept the 
system default values for all items or use user-specific settings for each 
item.  Remember, once you override a single default setting by clicking on a 
set button, none of that groups system defaults apply to this user.  

To have the system defaults apply to a user, you must highlight all of the 
default buttons (for either kernel authorizations or base privileges) for 
that user.  

To always grant an authorization to a user, highlight the authorization's set 
button.  Conversely, to never grant an authorization to a user, unhighlight 
(deselect) the authorization's set button.  

You may cancel the window at any time by selecting the "Cancel" button.  
Selecting the "OK" button brings up a confirmation box so that you can 
confirm your actions.  
