Help for Modify Subsystem Authorizations 

This window lets you view or modify a user's subsystem authorizations.  Use 
Modify Subsystem Authorizations to give a user rights to perform certain 
subsystem operations and to override the system defaults.  

The set button is highlighted when a subsystem authorization is granted.  

To confer a subsystem authorization to a user, highlight (select) that 
authorization's set button.  To retract a subsystem authorization from a 
user, unhighlight (deselect) that authorization's set button.  Whenever you 
change the set button, the software automatically deselects (unhighlights) 
the default button to indicate that the setting has been explicitly made.  

Whenever you change a single set button (that is, once you make a single 
explicit selection), the software automatically deselects (unhighlights) all 
the subsystem authorizations default buttons.  Although the default buttons 
are deselected, the set buttons still indicate the current settings -- 
whether or not the subsystem authorizations are granted to the user.  These 
settings are no longer associated with the system defaults; if the system 
defaults change, these settings do not change.  

So, either accept the system default values for all items or use 
user-specific settings for each item.  Remember, once you override a single 
default setting by clicking on a set button, none of the system defaults 
apply to this user.  

To have the system defaults apply to a user, you must highlight all of the 
subsystem authorizations default buttons for that user.  

To always grant a subsystem authorization to a user, highlight the 
authorization's set button.  Conversely, to never grant a subsystem 
authorization to a user, unhighlight (deselect) the authorization's set 
button.  

You may cancel the window at any time by selecting the "Cancel" button.  
Selecting the "OK" button brings up a confirmation box so that you can 
confirm your actions.  
