.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.TH XGC 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xgc - X graphics demo
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ta 8n
\fBxgc\fP [-\fItoolkitoption\fP ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I xgc
program demonstrates various features of the X graphics primitives.
Try the buttons, see what they do; we haven't the time to document
them, perhaps you do?
.SH OPTIONS
.I Xgc
accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options.
.SH X DEFAULTS
This program accepts the usual defaults for toolkit applications.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1)
.SH BUGS
This program isn't really finished yet.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1989, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHORS
Dan Schmidt, MIT
