.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" $XConsortium: x11pcomp.man,v 1.3 91/08/26 18:00:32 gildea Exp $
.TH X11PERFCOMP 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
x11perfcomp \- X11 server performance comparison program
.SH SYNTAX
.B x11perfcomp
[ \-r | \-ro ] [ \-l label_file ] files
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I x11perfcomp
program merges the output of several
.I x11perf(1)
runs into a nice tabular
format.  It takes the results in each file, fills in any missing test results if
necessary, and for each test shows the objects/second rate of each server.
If invoked with the -r or -ro options, it shows the relative performance 
of each server to the first server.
.PP
Normally,
.I x11perfcomp
uses the first file specified to determine which specific tests it should
report on.  Some (non-DEC :) servers may fail to perform
all tests.  In this case,
.I x11perfcomp
automatically substitutes in a rate of 0.0 objects/second. 
Since the first file
determines which tests to report on, this file must contain a superset of
the tests reported in the other files, else 
.I x11perfcomp
will fail.
.PP
You can provide an explicit list of tests to report on
by using the -l switch to specify a file of labels.  You can create a label
file by using the -label option in 
.I x11perf.
.SH OPTIONS
.I x11perfcomp
accepts the options listed below:
.TP 16
.B \-r
Specifies that the output should also include relative server
performance.
.TP 16
.B \-ro
Specifies that the output should include only relative server performance.
.TP 16
.B \-l label_file
Specifies a label file to use.
.SH X DEFAULTS
There are no X defaults used by this program.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), x11perf(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Mark Moraes wrote the original scripts to compare servers.
.br
Joel McCormack just munged them together a bit.
