.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: a64l.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/06 21:32:47 $
.\"
.TH a64l 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*La64l\*O, \*Ll64a\*O \- converts long integer and base-64 ASCII string
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <stdlib.h>
.PP
\*Llong  a64l (
.nL
       const char \*V*s\*O);\*O
.PP
\*Lchar *l64a (
.nL
       long \*Vl\*O);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Ls\*O"
Specifies a pointer to a character string that is to be converted to
a long integer.
.LI "\*Ll\*O"
Specifies a long integer that is to be converted to a character
string.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "a64l function"
.iX "l64a function"
.iX "converting integers"
The \*La64l\*O function converts a character string to a long
integer.  The \*Ll64a\*O function converts a long integer to
a character string.
Using these functions provides you the ability to manipulate
and store numbers as base-64 ASCII characters.
.PP
Each character used to store a long integer represents a
numeric value from 0 through 63.  Up to six characters may be used
to represent a long integer.  The characters are translated as
follows:
.ML
.LI
A period (.) represents 0.
.LI
A slash (/) represents 1.
.LI
The numbers 0 through 9 represent 2 through 11.
.LI
Uppercase letters A through Z represent 12 through 27.
.LI
Lowercase letters a through z represent 38 through 63.
.LE
.PP
If the string pointed to by the \*Vs\*O parameter exceeds six
characters, the \*La64l\*O function uses only the first six.
A character string is translated from left to right with the
least significant number on the left, and each character is
translated as a 6-bit radix-64 number.
.PP
If the \*Vl\*O parameter is used, the \*Ll64a\*O parameter returns
a pointer to the corresponding base-64 notation.   If the argument is
zero (0), the \*Ll64\*O function returns a pointer to a null string.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*La64l\*O function returns a long value on success.
.PP
the \*Ll64a\*O function returns a pointer to a static buffer whose contents
are overwritten with each call.
the contents of
.SH ERRORS
.PP
No errors are defined for this function.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
