.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: abort.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 14:57:19 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef tbl eqn
.TH abort 3
.SH NAME
\*Labort\*O \- Generates a software signal to end the current process
.SH LIBRARY
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <stdlib.h>
.PP 
\*Lint abort ( void );
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "abort function"
.iX "process" "generating signal to end"
.iX "signal" "to abort current process"
.PP 
The \*Labort(\|)\*O function sends a SIGABRT signal
to the current process.  This terminates the process
and produces a memory dump, unless the signal is caught and the signal
handler does not return.
.PP 
\*OIf the SIGABRT signal is neither caught nor ignored, and
if the current directory is writable, the system produces a memory
dump in the core file in the current directory and prints an error
message.
.PP 
If the call to the \*Labort(\|)\*O function terminates the process,
.iX abort
the
\*Labort(\|)\*O
will have the effect of the \*Lfclose(\|)\*O function on every open stream.
The
\*Labort(\|)\*O
function then terminates the process with the same result as
the
\*L_exit(\|)\*O
.iX _exit
function, except that the status made available to the
\*Lwait(\|)\*O
.iX wait
or
\*Lwaitpid(\|)\*O
function
.iX waitpid
by
\*Labort(\|)\*O
will be that of a process terminated by the SIGABRT signal.
.iX SIGABRT
If the call to
\*Labort(\|)\*O
terminates the process, all open
message catalog descriptors will also be closed.
.SH NOTES
.PP 
The
\*Labort(\|)\*O
function is supported for multi-threaded applications.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lexit\*O(2),
\*Lkill\*O(2),
\*Lsigaction\*O(2)
.iX "abort function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
