.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: abs.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/13 00:02:08 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.EQ
delim $$
.EN
.TH abs 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Labs\*O, \*Ldiv\*O, \*Llabs\*O, \*Lldiv\*O \- Computes absolute value and division of integers
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.iS
\*L#include <stdlib.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint abs (
    int \*Vi \*L);
.PP
\*Llong labs (
    \*Llong \*Vi \*L);
.sp .4v
struct div_t div\*O \*L(
    int \*Vnumerator \*L,
    int \*Vdenominator\*L);
.sp .4v
\*Lstruct ldiv_t ldiv (
    \*Llong \*Vnumerator\*L,
    \*Llong  \*Vdenominator\*L);
.iE
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vi"
\*OFor \*Labs(\|)\*O, specifies some integer.
.nL
For \*Llabs(\|)\*O,
specifies some
long integer.
.LI "\*Vnumerator"
\*OFor \*Ldiv(\|)\*O, specifies some integer.
.nL
For \*Lldiv(\|)\*O, specifies some long
integer.
.LI "\*Vdenominator"
\*OFor \*Ldiv(\|)\*O, specifies some integer.
.nL
For \*Lldiv(\|)\*O, specifies some long integer.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "abs function"
.iX "div function"
.iX "labs function"
.iX "ldiv function"
.iX "absolute value" "function"
.iX "division function"
.iX "integers" "absolute value"
.iX "integers" "division"
.iX "stdlib.h"
.iX "stdlib.h"
.iX "abs"
The \*Labs(\|)\*O function returns the absolute value of its
integer operand.
.PP
The \*Ldiv(\|)\*O function computes the quotient and remainder
of the division of the numerator \*Vnumerator\*O by the
denominator \*Vdenominator\*O.
If the division is inexact, the sign of the resulting
quotient is that of the algebraic quotient, and the magnitude of the
resulting quotient is the largest integer less than the magnitude
of the algebraic
quotient. If the result cannot be represented (for
example, if the denominator is 0), the behavior is undefined.
The \*Ldiv(\|)\*O function returns
a structure of type \*Ldiv_t\*O, \*Ocomprising both the
quotient and the remainder.
.PP
The
\*Llabs(\|)\*O
and
\*Lldiv(\|)\*O
functions
perform the same functions as
\*Labs(\|)\*O
and
\*Ldiv(\|)\*O
respectively, but
accept long integers
rather than integers as parameters.
The \*Lldiv(\|)\*O function returns
a structure of type \*Lldiv_t\*O, comprising both the
quotient and the remainder.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The
\*Labs(\|)\*O,
\*Llabs(\|)\*O,
\*Ldiv(\|)\*O,
and
\*Lldiv(\|)\*O
functions are supported for multi-threaded applications.
.PP
A
two's-complement integer can hold a negative
number whose absolute value is too large for the integer to hold.
When given this largest negative value, the \*Labs(\|)\*O function
returns the same value.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Labs(\|)\*O function and \*Llabs(\|)\*O function return
the absolute value of their arguments.
.PP
The \*Ldiv(\|)\*O function returns a structure of type \*Ldiv_t\*O
and the \*Lldiv(\|)\*O function
returns a structure of type \*Lldiv_t\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lfloor\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
.iX "abs function"
.iX "div function"
.iX "labs function"
.iX "ldiv function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
