.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: acceptable_password.3,v $ $Revision: 3.5.4.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:22:33 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 SecureWare, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved
.\" @(#)accept_pw.3	1.2 17:58:37 3/28/90 SecureWare
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
.TH acceptable_password 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lacceptable_password\*O \- Determines if a password meets deduction requirements (Enhanced Security)
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Security Library (\*Llibsecurity.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lint acceptable_password(
.nL
	char *\*Vword\*L,
.nL
	FILE *\*Vstream\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
...\"from TP "
.VL
.LI "\*Vword\*O"
Points to the suggested password.
...\"from TP "
.LI "\*Vstream\*O"
Points to the stream to write diagnostics into.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "acceptable_password function"
.iX "password" "checking acceptability"
The
\*Lacceptable_password(\|)\*O
function determines if the given password is difficult to deduce from
well-known, password-guessing heuristics.
The cleartext (plaintext) password is passed as the first argument, and the
file pointer of the stream that is used to report failure reasons is
the second argument.
If this checking is to be silent, the second argument should be a
null-file pointer.
.P
When the
\*Lacceptable_password(\|)\*O
function
returns a value of
1, the password provided meets all the tests listed in the following text.
When it returns a value of 0 (zero),
the password failed to meet at least one of the tests.
.P
The selectivity criteria for the password include but cannot be limited
to the following four tests:
.VL 15
.LI "\*LPalindrome\*O"
This test passes if the word is not a palindrome.
(A palindrome is a word that is spelled the same backwards as it
is forwards.)
Examples of palindromes that fail this test are mom, dad, noon,
redivider, radar.
Palindromes do not make good passwords because they reduce an
\*Vn\*O
character password to
\*Vn\*O/2 + 1
characters.
A penetrator knowing that palindromes were legal could use heuristics that
could deduce the password much more quickly than if they were excluded.
.LI "\*LLogin Name\*O"
This test passes if the password is not a derivative of a login name for
the system.
Many insecure systems allow passwords to be the login name itself.
This is a fact known by many penetrators.
All login names are excluded because a user that is the owner of several
pseudouser accounts can elect to use the login name of one account
as the password for all accounts.
.LI "\*LGroup Name\*O"
Similar to the login name issue, this test passes if the password is not a
group name derivative.
.LI "\*LEnglish Word\*O"
This test passes if the
\*Lspell\*O
program
determines that
the password is not an English word.
A penetrator then could not search the online dictionary to find the
password.
The
\*Lspell\*O
program also has some built-in rules that go beyond the actual online
dictionary in determining what is a proper word, and this routine
takes advantage of that.
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
Programs that use this routine must be compiled with \*L-lsecurity\*O.
.SH FILES
.PP
...\"from TP "
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O"
System password file.
...\"from TP "
.LI "\*L/etc/group\*O"
System group file.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetpwent(3),
\*Lgetgrent\*O(3).
.PP
Commands:
\*Lspell(1).
.iX "acceptable_password function"
.\ #endif /* SEC_BASE */
.EQ
delim off
.EN
