.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: addch.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/15 20:09:21 $
.\"
.TH addch 3
.SH NAME
\*Laddch\*O, \*Lwaddch\*O, \*Lmvaddch\*O, \*Lmvwaddch\*O \- Adds a character to a window.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O

\*Lint addch(\*Vch\*L)
    chtype \*Vch\*L;\*O

\*Lint waddch(\*Vwin\*L, \*Vch\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L;
    chtype \*Vch\*L;\*O

\*Lint mvaddch(\*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L, \*Vch\*L)
    int \*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L;
    chtype \*Vch\*L;\*O

\*Lint mvwaddch(\*Vwin\*L, \*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L, \*Vch\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L;
    int \*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L;
    chtype \*Vch\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "addch macro"
.iX "waddch subroutine"
.iX "mvaddch macro"
.iX "mvwaddch macro"
.iX "addch macro" "putchar subroutine"
The routine \*Laddch\*O inserts the character \*Lch\*O into the
default window at the current cursor position and the window cursor
is advanced.  The character is of the type \*Lchtype\*O which is defined
in the \*L<curses.h>\*O header file, as containing both data and attributes.
.PP
The routine \*Lwaddch\*O inserts the character \*Lch\*O
into the specified window at the current cursor position.
The cursor position is advanced.
.PP
The routine \*Lmvaddch\*O moves the cursor to the specified (y, x)
position and inserts the character \*Lch\*O into the default window.
The cursor position is advanced after the character has been inserted.
.PP
The routine \*Lmvwaddch\*O moves the cursor to the specified (y, x)
position and inserts the character \*Lch\*O into the specified window.
The cursor position is advanced after the character has been inserted.
.PP
All these routines are similar to \*Lputchar\*O.
The following information applies to all the routines.
.PP
If the cursor moves on to the right margin, an automatic
newline is performed.  If \*Lscrollok\*O
is enabled and a character is added to the bottom right
corner of the screen, the scrolling region will be scrolled up one line.
If scrolling is not allowed, ERR will be returned.
.PP
If \*Lch\*O is a tab, newline, or backspace, the cursor
will be moved appropriately within the window.
If \*Lch\*O is a newline, the \*Lclrtoeol\*O
routine is called before the cursor is moved to the beginning of the next line.
If newline mapping is off, the cursor will be moved to the
next line, but the x coordinate will be unchanged.
A return (\\r) causes the cursor to be placed at the beginning
of the current line.  If \*Lch\*O is a tab, the cursor is moved
to the next tab position within the window.
If \*Lch\*O is another control character, it will be
drawn in the ^X notation.  Calling the \*Linch\*O
routine after adding a control character
returns the representation of the control character,
not the control character.
.PP
Video attributes can be combined with a character by or-ing them into the
parameter.  This will result in these attributes being set.
The intent here is that text, including attributes, can be
copied from one place to another using \*Linch\*O and \*Laddch\*O.
For further information, see \*Lstandout\*O(3).
.PP
The \*Laddch\*O, \*Lmvaddch\*O, and \*Lmvwaddch\*O routines
are macros.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Laddch\*O, \*Lwaddch\*O, \*Lmvaddch\*O, and \*Lmvwaddch\*O
functions return OK on success and ERR on error.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lclrtoeol\*O(3), \*Linch\*O(3), \*Lputchar\*O(3), \*Lscrollok\*O(3),
\*Lstandout\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
