.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: addstr.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/15 20:09:25 $
.\"
.TH addstr 3
.SH NAME
\*Laddstr\*O, \*Lwaddstr\*O, \*Lmvaddstr\*O, \*Lmvwaddstr\*O \- Adds a string to a window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O

\*Lint addstr(\*Vstr\*L)
    char \(**\*Vstr\*L;\*O

\*Lint waddstr(\*Vwin\*L, \*Vstr\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L;
    char \(**\*Vstr\*L;\*O

\*Lint mvaddstr(\*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L, \*Vstr\*L)
    int \*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L;
    char \(**\*Vstr\*L;\*O

\*Lint mvwaddstr(\*Vwin\*L, \*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L, \*Vstr\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L;
    int \*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L;
    char \(**\*Vstr\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "addstr macro"
.iX "waddstr subroutine"
.iX "mvaddstr macro"
.iX "mvwaddstr macro"
The \*Laddstr\*O routine writes all the characters of the
null-terminated character string \*Lstr\*O
on the default window at the current (y, x) coordinates.
.PP
The routine \*Lwaddstr\*O writes all the characters of the
null terminated character string \*Lstr\*O
on the specified window at the current (y, x) coordinates.
.PP
The routine \*Lmvaddstr\*O
writes all the characters of the
null terminated character string \*Lstr\*O
on the default window at the specified (y, x) coordinates.
.PP
The routine \*Lmvwaddstr\*O writes all the characters of the
null terminated character string \*Lstr\*O
on the specified window at the specified (y, x) coordinates.
.PP
The following information applies to all the routines.
All the routines return ERR
if writing the string causes illegal scrolling.
In this case
the routine will write as much as possible of the string
on the window.
.PP
These routines are functionally
equivalent to calling \*Laddch\*O or \*Lwaddch\*O
once for each character in the string.
.PP
The routines \*Laddstr\*O, \*Lmvaddstr\*O,
and \*Lmvwaddstr\*O are macros.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Laddstr\*O, \*Lwaddstr\*O, \*Lmvaddstr\*O,
and \*Lmvwaddstr\*O
functions return OK on success and ERR on error.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Laddch\*O(3), \*Lwaddch\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
