.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: addwch.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/15 23:57:19 $
.\"
.TH addwch 3
.SH NAME
\*Laddwch\*O, \*Lwaddwch\*O, \*Lmvaddwch\*O, \*Lmvwaddwch\*O, \*Lechowchar\*O, \*Lwechowchar\*O \- Add a wchar_t character (with attributes) to a curses window
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
The \*Lcurses\*O library (\*Llibcurses.so\*O, \*Llibcurses.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint addwch(chtype \*Vwch\*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint waddwch(
.br
        WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L,
.br
        chtype \*Vwch\*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint mvaddwch(
.br
        int \*Vy\*L,
.br
        int \*Vx\*L,
.br
        chtype \*Vwch\*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint mvwaddwch(
.br
        WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L,
.br
        int \*Vy\*L,
.br
        int \*Vx\*L,
.br
        chtype \*Vwch\*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint echowchar(chtype \*Vwch\*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint wechowchar(
.br
        WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L,
.br
        chtype \*Vwch\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vwch\*O"
Specifies the wide character being added to the window.
.LI "\*Vwin\*O"
Specifies a \*Lcurses\*O window. If not specified, the
window is the default window \*Lstdscr\*O.
.LI "\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O"
Specifies the line (\*Vy\*O) and column (\*Vx\*O)
coordinates of the target position on the window.
If coordinates are not specified, the target
position is the current position of the logical cursor.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "addwch macro"
.iX "waddwch function"
.iX "mvaddwch macro"
.iX "mvwaddwch macro"
.iX "echowchar macro"
.iX "wechowchar macro"
.iX "addwch macro" "putwchar subroutine"
The \*Laddwch\*O routine
adds the wchar_t character \*Vwch\*O
to the default window at the current cursor position and
the window cursor is advanced.
The character is of the type \*Lchtype\*O,
which is defined in the \*L<curses.h>\*O
header file as containing both data and attributes.
.PP
The \*Lwaddwch\*O routine
adds the wchar_t character \*Vwch\*O
to the specified window at the current cursor position.
The cursor position is advanced.
.PP
The \*Lmvaddwch\*O routine
moves the cursor to the specified (\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O) position and
adds the wchar_t character \*Vwch\*O
to the default window.
The cursor position is advanced after the character has been added.
.PP
The \*Lmvwaddwch\*O routine
moves the cursor to the specified (\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O) position and
adds the wchar_t character \*Vwch\*O
to the specified window.
The cursor position is advanced after the character has been added.
.PP
The \*Lechowchar\*O routine
adds the wchar_t character \*Vwch\*O
to the default window at the current cursor position and
the window cursor is advanced. The screen is also refreshed.
.PP
The \*Lwechowchar\*O routine
adds the wchar_t character \*Vwch\*O
to the specified window at the current cursor position.
The cursor position is advanced and the screen is also refreshed.
.PP
All these routines are similar to the \*Lputwchar\*O routine.
The following information applies to all the routines.
.PP
If the cursor moves into the right margin, a
newline character is generated automatically.  If \*Lscrollok\*O
is enabled and a character is added to the bottom right
corner of the screen,
the scrolling region is scrolled up one line.
If scrolling is not allowed, \*LERR\*O is returned.
.PP
If \*Vwch\*O is a tab, newline, or backspace, the cursor
is moved appropriately within the window.
If \*Vwch\*O is a newline, the \*Lclrtoeol\*O
routine is called before the cursor is moved to the beginning
of the next line.
If newline mapping is off, the cursor is moved to the
next line, but the \*Vx\*O coordinate is unchanged.
If \*Vwch\*O is a tab, the cursor is moved
to the next tab position within the window.
If \*Vwch\*O is another control character, it will be
drawn in the ^X notation.  Calling the \*Linwch\*O
routine after adding a control character
returns the representation of the control character,
not the control character.
.PP
A logical OR operation can combine video attributes with a
character in the parameter. This operation:
.ML
.LI
Sets the video attributes
.LI
Allows you to copy text, including attributes,
from one place to another using the \*Linwch\*O and
\*Laddwch\*O routines
.LE
.PP
For more information, see the \*Lstandout\*O(3) reference page.
.PP
The \*Laddwch\*O, \*Lmvaddwch\*O, \*Lmvwaddwch\*O, \*Lechowchar\*O,
and \*Lwechowchar\*O routines
are macros.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Laddwch\*O, \*Lwaddwch\*O, \*Lmvaddwch\*O, \*Lmvwaddwch\*O,
\*Lechowchar\*O and \*Lwechowchar\*O,
routines return \*LOK\*O on success and \*LERR\*O on error.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lclrtoeol\*O(3), \*Linwch\*O(3), \*Lputwchar\*O(3),
\*Lscrollok\*O(3), \*Lstandout\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
