.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: aio_suspend.3,v $ $Revision: 1.2.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/11 16:27:19 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)aio_suspend.3 6.5 1/9/92
.\" SCCSID: @(#)aio_suspend.3	6.5	1/9/92
.TH aio_suspend 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Laio_suspend\*O \- Suspend the calling process until at least one of the specified asynchronous I/O requests has completed (P1003.4/D11)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
#include \*L<aio.h>\*O
.PP
int \*Laio_suspend\*O (
.br
int \*Vcnt\*O,
.br
const struct \*Laiocb\*O \*V*aiocbp[]\*O);
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 8
.I cnt
The number of elements in the array. This number
specifies the number of asynchronous I/O operations.
.TP
.I *aiocbp
A pointer to an array of pointers of \*Laiocb\*O control blocks.
If any element in the \*Vaiocbp\*O is NULL, the argument is ignored.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "aio_suspend function"
.iX "input/output" "suspending"
The \*Laio_suspend\*O function
suspends the calling process until at least one asynchronous
I/O operation has completed.
At the time of the call, if an asynchronous I/O operation
specified in the \*Vaiocbp\*O array corresponds to completed asynchronous
I/O operations, the function returns without suspending the calling
process.
.PP
The \*Vcnt\*O argument indicates the number of elements in the array.
Each element in the array is a pointer to an individual \*Laiocb\*O data
structure.
Each \*Laiocbp\*O structure must have been used in initiating an asynchronous
I/O request by a call to the \*Laio_read\*O, \*Laio_write\*O, or
\*Llio_listio\*O functions.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If the \*Laio_suspend\*O function returns due to an
asynchronous I/O completion, a value of 0 is returned.
The application may determine which asynchronous I/O operations
finished by calling the \*Laio_error\*O and
\*Laio_return\*O functions.
.PP
On an unsuccessful call,
a value of \-1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is
set to indicate that an error occurred.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The \*Laio_suspend\*O function fails under the following conditions:
.TP 15
[EINTR]
A signal interrupted the \*Laio_suspend\*O function. Note that, since each
asynchronous I/O operation may invoke a signal when it completes, this error
return may be caused by the completion of one (or more) of the I/O operations
being awaited.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Laio_read\*O(3), \*Laio_write\*O(3), \*Llio_listio\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
