.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: aio_error.3,v $ $Revision: 1.2.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/11 16:01:12 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)aio_error.3 6.5 1/7/92
.\" SCCSID: @(#)aio_error.3	6.5	1/7/92
.TH aio_error 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Laio_error\*O \- Return the error status of a specified asynchronous I/O operation (P1003.4/D11)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
#include \*L<aio.h>\*O
.PP
int \*Laio_error\*O (
.br
aiocb_t \*V*aiocbp\*O);
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 8
.I *aiocbp
A pointer to the address of the \*Laiocb\*O structure.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "aio_error function"
.iX "input/output" "returning errors"
The \*Laio_error\*O function returns the error status associated
with the specified \*Vaiocbp\*O. The error status is the \*Lerrno\*O
value that is set by the corresponding asynchronous I/O
\*Lread\*O or \*Lwrite\*O operation.
.PP
The \*Laio_error\*O function returns EINPROGRESS until the
asynchronous I/O operation is complete. Once the operation is complete,
call the \*Laio_return\*O function to determine if the operation is successful.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If the asynchronous I/O operation is successful, a value of 0
is returned.
.PP
If the asynchronous
I/O operation has not yet completed, [EINPROGRESS] is returned.
.PP
If the \*Laio_error\*O operation was canceled, [ECANCELED] is returned.
.PP
On an unsuccessful call, the value returned corresponds to those
error values returned for a failed read or write operation.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The \*Laio_error\*O function fails under the following conditions:
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The \*Vaiocbp\*O argument does not refer to an asynchronous operation whose
return status has not yet been retrieved.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lclose\*O(2), \*Lexec\*O(2), \*L_exit\*O(2), \*Lfork\*O(2), \*Llseek\*O(2),
\*Lread\*O(2), \*Lwrite\*O(2),
\*Laio_cancel\*O(3), \*Laio_read\*O(3), \*Laio_return\*O(3),
\*Laio_write\*O(3), \*Llio_listio\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
