.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: aio_cancel.3,v $ $Revision: 1.2.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/11 15:58:29 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)aio_cancel.3 6.5 1/7/92
.\" SCCSID: @(#)aio_cancel.3	6.5	1/7/92
.TH aio_cancel 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Laio_cancel\*O \- Cancel one or more asynchronous I/O requests pending against the specified file descriptor (P1003.4/D11)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
#include \*L<aio.h>\*O
.PP
int \*Laio_cancel\*O (
.br
int \*Vfildes\*O,
.br
struct \*Laiocb\*O \*V*aiocbp\*O);
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 8
.I fildes
The file descriptor against which outstanding asynchronous I/O
operations are canceled.
.TP
.I *aiocbp
A pointer to the address of the \*Laiocb\*O structure for a particular request
to be canceled. If the \*Vaiocbp\*O argument is NULL, all queued outstanding
asynchronous I/O requests against the file descriptor are canceled.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "aio_cancel function"
.iX "input/output" "asynchronous cancel"
The \*Laio_cancel\*O function cancels asynchronous I/O requests.
Normal signal delivery occurs for asynchronous I/O operations that are
successfully canceled. If a request cannot be canceled, then the normal
asynchronous completion process takes place for those requests when they
are completed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On a successful call to the \*Laio_cancel\*O function,
the requested operation is canceled, and AIO_CANCELED is returned.
If at least one of the requested
operations is not canceled because it is in progress, AIO_NOTCANCELED
is returned. If all the operations completed prior to the cancel request,
AIO_ALLDONE is returned.
.PP
On an unsuccessful call,
a value of \-1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate that an
error occurred. Note that the value of \-1 is returned only if the call
itself failed.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The \*Laio_cancel\*O function fails under the following conditions:
.TP 15
[EBADF]
The \*Vfildes\*O argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The \*Vaiocbp\*O argument does not refer to an asynchronous operation whose
return status has not yet been retrieved.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Laio_read\*O(3), \*Laio_write\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
