.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: alarm.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/13 00:13:42 $
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH alarm 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lalarm\*O, \*Lualarm\*O \- Sets or changes the timeout of interval timers.
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "alarm function"
.iX "ualarm function"
.iX "interval timers" "setting timeout"
.iX "interval timers" "changing timeout"
.iX "timeout" "for interval timers"
.sS
\*L#include <sys/unistd.h>
.P
\*Lunsigned int alarm(
.nL
    \*Lunsigned int \*Vseconds\*L) ;
.P
\*Lunsigned int ualarm\*O(\*L
.nL
    \*Lunsigned int \*Vmseconds\*L,
.nL
    unsigned int \*Vinterval\*L) ;
.P
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 1i
.LI "\*Vseconds\*O"
Specifies a number of real-time seconds.
.LI "\*Vmseconds"
\*OSpecifies a number of real-time microseconds.
.LI "\*Vinterval\*O"
Specifies the interval for repeating
the timer.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
\*Lalarm(\|)\*O
function is used to obtain notification of a timeout after the
number of real-time seconds specified by the \*Vseconds\*O parameter
has elapsed.
At some time after
\*Vseconds\*O
seconds have elapsed, a signal is delivered to the process.
Each call resets the timer until the
\*Vseconds\*O parameter is set to 0 (zero). When the notification signal is
caught or ignored, no action takes place; otherwise the calling
process is terminated.
The
\*Lalarm(\|)\*O
function uses the ITIMER_REAL interval timer.
.P
The
\*Lualarm(\|)\*O
function is used to obtain notification of a timeout after the
number of real-time microseconds specified by the \*Vmseconds\*O
parameter has
elapsed.  When the \*Vinterval\*O parameter is nonzero, timeout
notification occurs after the number of microseconds specified by
the \*Vinterval\*O parameter has been added to the \*Vmseconds\*O parameter.
When the notification signal is caught or ignored, no action takes
place; otherwise the calling process is terminated.
The
\*Lualarm(\|)\*O
function is the simplified interface to the
\*Lsetitimer(\|)\*O
function, and uses the
ITIMER_REAL interval timer.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The
\*Lalarm(\|)\*O
function is supported for multi-threaded applications.  The
\*Lualarm(\|)\*O
function is not supported for multiple threads.
.PP
Although the
\*Lalarm(\|)\*O
function itself is reentrant, it should be noted that just as the
second of two
calls from a single thread to
\*Lalarm(\|)\*O
resets the timer, this is also true if two
calls are made from different threads.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The value returned is the amount of time, in seconds, until the
system is scheduled to generate the \*LSIGALARM\* signal from
the previous call to \*Lalarm\*O(). The value 0 (zero) is returned if there
was no previous \*Lalarm\*O() request.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the
\*Lalarm(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to the following value:
...\"from TP 1i"
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The
\*Vseconds\*O
parameter specifies a value greater than
100,000,000.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgettimer\*O(3)
.iX "alarm function"
.iX "ualarm function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
