.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: alarm.3f,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 13:09:56 $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)alarm.3f 6.1 (Berkeley) 5/15/85
.\"
.TH alarm 3f
.SH NAME
alarm \- execute a subroutine after a specified time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B integer function alarm (time, proc)
.br
.B integer time
.br
.B external proc
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This routine arranges for subroutine
\*Vproc\*O
to be called after
\*Vtime\*O
seconds. If
\*Vtime\*O
is ``0'', the alarm is turned off and no routine will be called.
The returned value will be the time remaining on the last alarm.
.SH FILES
.PP
\*V/usr/lib/libU77.a\*O
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lalarm\*O(3), \*Lsleep\*O(3f), \*Lsignal\*O(3).
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
.B alarm
and
\*Vsleep\*O
interact. If
\*Vsleep\*O
is called after
.IR alarm ,
the
\*Valarm\*O
process will never be called. SIGALRM will occur at the lesser of the
remaining
\*Valarm\*O
time or the
\*Vsleep\*O
time.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
