.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: assert.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 14:59:04 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH assert 3
.SH NAME
\*Lassert\*O \- Inserts program diagnostics
.SH LIBRARY
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <assert.h\*O>\*L
.PP
\*Lvoid assert\*O(\*L
.nL
    \*Lint \*Vexpression\*O) ;\*L
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vexpression\*O"
Specifies an expression that is evaluated
as TRUE or FALSE. This expression is evaluated in the same manner
as a C language \*Lif\*O control statement.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "assert macro"
.iX "diagnostics" "inserting in programs"
The
\*Lassert(\|)\*O macro inserts diagnostics into programs.
On execution, when the \*Vexpression\*O parameter is false (returns FALSE),
this macro writes information about the particular call that failed,
including the text of the argument, the name of the source file,
and the source-file line number (the latter two are respectively
the values of preprocessing macros _\|_FILE_\|_ and
_\|_LINE_\|_) on \*Lstderr\*O.
The error message is taken from
the standard C library message catalog.
Also, the \*Labort(\|)\*O function
produces a software abort fault.
.iX "abort"
.PP
When you compile a program with the -DNDEBUG preprocessor option,
or with the \*L#define NDEBUG\*O preprocessor control statement
before the \*L#include <assert.h>\*O statement, calls to the
\*Lassert()\*O macro have no effect.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.PP
.SH RETURN VALUES
The \*Lassert(\|)\*O function returns no value.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Labort\*O(3)
.iX "assert macro"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
