.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: atof.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/13 15:40:50 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH atof 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Latof\*O, \*Lstrtod\*O \- Converts a character string to a double-precision floating-point value
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.iS
\*L#include\*O <\*Lstdlib.h\*O>\*L
.PP
\*Ldouble atof\*O(\*L
    \*Lconst char\*O *\*Vnptr\*O) ;\*L
.PP
\*Ldouble strtod\*O(\*L
    \*Lconst char\*O *\*Vnptr\*O,\*L
    \*Lchar\*O **\*Vendptr\*O) ;\*L
.iE
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vnptr\*O"
Points to the character string to convert.
.LI "\*Vendptr\*O"
Specifies either a null value,
or a pointer to the character that ended the scan or to a null value.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "atof function"
.iX "strtod function"
.iX "string" "converting character to floating point"
.iX "string conversion" "character to floating point"
.iX "character string" "converting to floating point"
The \*Latof(\|)\*O
.iX "atof function"
function converts the string pointed to by the \*Vnptr\*O parameter
up to the first character that is inconsistent with the format of a
floating-point number
to a
\*Ldouble\*O floating-point value. Leading white-space characters are
ignored.
A call to this function is equivalent to a call to
\*Lstrtod(\*Vnptr\*L,\ (char\ \(**\(**)\ NULL),\*O
.iX "strtod function"
.iX "NULL"
except for error handling.
When the value cannot be represented, the result is undefined.
.PP
The \*Lstrtod(\|)\*O
.iX "strtod function"
function converts the initial portion of the string pointed to by
the \*Vnptr\*O parameter
to
\*Ldouble\*O
representation.
First the input string is decomposed into the following three parts:
.ML
.LI
An
initial, possibly empty, sequence of white-space characters (as
specified by the \*Lisspace(\|)\*O
.iX "isspace function"
function).
.LI
A subject sequence interpreted as a floating-point
constant.
.LI
A final string of one or more unrecognized
characters, including the terminating null character of the input
.iX "null character"
string.
.LE
.PP
After decomposition of the string, the subject sequence is converted
to a floating-point number, and the resulting value is returned.  A
subject sequence is defined as the longest
initial subsequence of the
input string, starting with the first nonwhite-space character, that
is of the expected form. The expected form and order of the subject
sequence is:
.ML
.LI
An optional plus (\|+\|) or
minus (\|\-\|) sign.
.LI
A  sequence of digits optionally containing a radix character.
.LI
An optional exponent part. An exponent part consists of
\*Le\*O
or
\*LE\*O,
followed by an optional sign, which is followed by one or more decimal
digits.
.LE
.PP
When the input string is empty or consists entirely of white space, or
when the first nonwhite-space character is other than a sign, a digit,
or a radix character, the subject sequence contains no characters.
.PP
For the \*Lstrtod(\|)\*O function,
when the value of the \*Vendptr\*O parameter is not \*L(char**) NULL\*O,
a pointer
to the character that terminated the scan is stored at \*V*endptr\*O.
.PP
When a floating-point value cannot be formed, \*V*endptr\*O is
set to \*Vnptr\*O.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O function may affect the radix character
used in the conversion result.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
When the string is empty or begins with an unrecognized character,
+0.0 is returned as the floating-point value.
.PP
When a correct return value overflows, a properly signed
\*LHUGE_VAL\*O (\*LINF\*O) is returned. On underflow, a properly signed
0 (zero) is returned.
.PP
Upon successful completion, either function returns the converted
floating-point value.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the
\*Latof(\|)\*O
or
\*Lstrtod(\|)\*O
function fails, \*Lerrno\*O may be set to the
following value:
.VL 1i
.LI "[ERANGE]"
The input string is out of range (that is, the subject sequence
can not be converted to a floating-point value without causing underflow
or overflow).
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Latoi\*O(3),
\*Lscanf\*O(3)
.iX "atof function"
.iX "strtod function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
