.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: attroff.3,v $ $Revision: 3.3.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/15 20:09:29 $
.\"
.TH attroff 3
.SH NAME
\*Lattroff\*O, \*Lattron\*O, \*Lattrset\*O, \*Lstandend\*O, \*Lstandout\*O, \*Lwstandend\*O, \*Lwstandout\*O, \*Lwattroff\*O, \*Lwattron\*O, \*Lwattrset\*O \- Attribute manipulation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O

\*Lint attroff(\*Vattrs\*L)
    int \*Vattrs\*L;\*O

\*Lint wattroff(\*Vwin\*L, \*Vattrs\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L;
    int \*Vattrs\*L;\*O

\*Lint attron(\*Vattrs\*L)
    int \*Vattrs\*L;\*O

\*Lint wattron(\*Vwin\*L, \*Vattrs\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L;
    int \*Vattrs\*L;\*O

\*Lint attrset(\*Vattrs\*L)
    int \*Vattrs\*L;\*O

\*Lint wattrset(\*Vwin\*L, \*Vattrs\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L;
    int \*Vattrs\*L;\*O

\*Lint standend(\|)\*O

\*Lwstandend(\*Vwin\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L;\*O

\*Lint standout(\|)\*O

\*Lint wstandout(\*Vwin\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "attroff macro"
.iX "attron macro"
.iX "attrset macro"
.iX "standend subroutine"
.iX "standout subroutine"
.iX "wstandend subroutine"
.iX "wstandout subroutine"
.iX "wattroff subroutine"
.iX "wattron subroutine"
.iX "wattrset subroutine"
These routines manipulate the current attributes of a window.
.PP
The routine \*Lattroff\*O
turns off the named attributes (\*Lattrs\*O)
of the default window
without turning any other attributes on or off.
.PP
The routine \*Lattron\*O turns on the named attributes
of the default window
without affecting any other attributes.
.PP
The routine \*Lattrset\*O
sets the current attributes of the default window to
the named attributes \*Lattrs\*O,
which is of the type \*Lchtype\*O,
and is defined in the \*L<curses.h>\*O header file.
.PP
The routine \*Lstandout\*O switches on the best
highlighting mode available on the terminal
for the default window and it is functionally the same as
\*Lattron(A_STANDOUT)\*O.
.PP
The routine \*Lstandend\*O switches off all highlighting
associated with the default window.
It is functionally the same as \*Lattrset\*O(0),
in that it turns off all attributes.
.PP
The routine \*Lwattroff\*O
switches off the named attributes, \*Lattrs\*O,
for the specified window.
Other attributes are not changed.
.PP
The routine \*Lwattron\*O turns on the named attributes
of the specified window without affecting any others.
.PP
The routine \*Lwattrset\*O
sets the current attributes of the specified window to \*Lattrs\*O.
.PP
The routine \*Lwstandout\*O switches on the best highlighting
mode available on the terminal for the specified window.
Functionally it is the same as \*Lwattron(A_STANDOUT)\*O.
.PP
The routine \*Lwstandend\*O switches off all highlighting
associated with the specified window.
Functionally it is the same as \*Lwattrset\*O(0);
that is, it turns off all attributes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.PP
Attributes can be any combination of \*LA_STANDOUT\*O,
\*LA_REVERSE\*O, \*LA_BOLD\*O, \*LA_DIM\*O, \*LA_BLINK\*O,
\*LA_UNDERLINE\*O, \*LA_INVIS\*O, \*LA_PROTECT\*O, and
\*LA_ALTCHARSET\*O.
These constants are defined in the \*L<curses.h>\*O header file.
.PP
Attributes can be combined with the C language | (or) operator.
.PP
The current attributes of a window are applied to all characters that
are written into the window with \*Laddch\*O
or \*Lwaddch\*O.
Attributes are properties of the character
and move with the character
through any scrolling and insert/delete line/character operations.
Within the restrictions set by the terminal hardware
they will be
displayed as the graphic rendition of characters put on the screen.
.PP
The routines \*Lattroff\*O, \*Lattron\*O and \*Lattrset\*O
are macros.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lattroff\*O, \*Lwattroff\*O, \*Lattron\*O, \*Lwattron\*O,
\*Lattrset\*O, \*Lwattrset\*O, \*Lstandend\*O, \*Lwstandend\*O,
\*Lstandout\*O, and \*Lwstandout\*O
functions return OK on success and ERR on error.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Laddch\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
