.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: aud_sitevent.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:21:07 $
.\"
.\" From scott@grumpy.zk3.dec.com Fri Jul 30 11:55:35 1993
.\" Created for T2.0-5 by Larry Scoot and Dave Suitor   -   dms
.TH aud_sitevent 3
.SH NAME
.PP
aud_sitevent, aud_sitevent_num \- audit site-event operations (Enhanced Security)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\*Laud_sitevent(
	\*Lint \*Vevent,
	\*Lint \*Vsubevent,
	\*Lint *\*Veventname,
	\*Lchar *\*Vsubeventname\*L);
.PP
\*Laud_sitevent_num(
	\*Lchar *\*Veventname,
	\*Lchar *\*Vsubeventname,
	\*Lint *\*Vev_num,
	\*Lint *\*Vsubev_num\*L);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "aud_sitevent library call"
.iX "aud_sitevent_num library call"
.PP
Audit site-events are specific to and defined by a particular installation.
For example, an installation could have their own
database program, and wish to have it use the audit
subsystem.  To do so, their database events and subevents would be
registered in the \*L/etc/sec/site_events\*O file.
.PP
The \*Lsite_events\*O file contains one entry for each site-event.  Each
site-event entry may contain any number of subevents.  Both preselection
(see
\*Lauditmask\*O(8)) and postreduction (see \*Laudit_tool\*O(8)) capabilities
are supported for site-events.  Postreduction capabilities are also
supported for subevents.
.PP
The \*Laud_sitevent\*O function, when provided \*Vevent\*O and
\*Vsubevent\*O numbers, copies the corresponding event and subevent names
into \*Veventname\*O and \*Vsubeventname.\*O  If no \*Vsubevent\*O for that
site-event exists, \*Vsubevent\*O should be set to -1, and no
\*Vsubeventname\*O will be copied.  The maximum length of an \*Vevent\*O
or \*Vsubevent\*O name is AUD_MAXEVENT_LEN bytes. If the requested mapping
does not exist, -1 is returned.
.PP
The \*Laud_sitevent_num\*O function, when provided \*Veventname\*O and
\*Vsubeventname\*O, copies the corresponding event numbers into
\*Vev_num\*O and \*Vsubev_num\*O.  If no subevent for that site-event
exists, \*Vsubeventname\*O should be set to the null string, and
\*Vsubev_num\*O will be set to -1.  If the requested mapping does not
exist, -1 is returned.
.PP
Mappings between the event/subevent numbers and names are placed into
the file \*L/etc/sec/site_events\*O.  A sample file follows:
.nf
\f(CW
     eventname 2048,
         subevent0 0,
         subevent1 1,
         ...
         subevent99 99;
     my_rdb 2049,
         rdb_creat 0,
         rdb_open 1,
         rdb_delete 2;
     nosubeventevent 2050;\f1
.fi
.PP
Each line contains an event or subevent name followed by its number.  An
event number must be between MIN_SITE_EVENT (see \*Lsys/audit.h\*O) and
MIN_SITE_EVENT + N_SITE_EVENTS (see \*L/sys/data/audit_data.c\*O).  A subevent
number must
be a non-negative integer.  The line is terminated either with a ',' if an
associated subevent follows, or with a ';' if no further associated
subevents follow.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.iX "aud_sitevent_num library" "examples"
The following example looks up the event and subevent numbers for
event "my_rdb", subevent "rdb_open", and generates an audit record
if the lookup succeeded.
.sp
.nf
\f(CWif ( aud_sitevent_num ( "my_rdb", "rdb_open", 
                                       &event, &subev ) == 0 )
   audgenl ( event, T_SUBEVENT, subev, T_CHARP,
                                       "sample rec", 0 );\f1
.fi
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*EEnhanced Security\*O
.PP
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
