.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: audgenl.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.8 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:21:12 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)audgenl.3x        x.x     01/21/90
.TH audgenl 3
.SH NAME
audgenl \- generate an audit record (Enhanced Security)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L#include <sys/audit.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint audgenl (\*O
.br
	\*Lunsigned \*Vevent\*O [ ,\*Vtoken_type\*O, \*Vtoken_val\*O] ... , 0 );
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 2
\*Vevent\*O
The event value of the operation being audited.
.TP 2
\*Vtoken_type,token_val\*O
A type and value pair defining the data to be placed in the audit record.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "audgenl library routine"
This routine is an interface to the
.MS  audgen 2
system call.
It
accepts a variable number of arguments describing the event
and audit data, then calls
.MS audgen 2
with the appropriate parameters to
generate the audit record.
This routine is found in the
.PN libaud.a
library and is loaded with the
\*L\-laud\*O
option.
.PP
The
\*Vevent\*O
argument indicates the event value of the
operation being audited, as defined in
.PN audit.h .
The value of
\*Vevent\*O
must be between MIN_TRUSTED_EVENT and
MIN_TRUSTED_EVENT + N_TRUSTED_EVENTS \-1 or
between MIN_SITE_EVENT and
MIN_SITE_EVENT + \*Vn_site_events\*O \-1 as defined in \*Laudit.h\*O.
The definition of \*Vn_site_events\*O is found in
\*L/usr/sys/data/audit_data.c\*O.
The argument pairs
containing
\*Vtoken_type\*O
and
\*Vtoken_val\*O
describe the data
that is to be placed into the audit record.
The
argument
\*Vtoken_type\*O
describes
the type of data, as defined in
the set of public tokens (in \*Laudit.h\*O).
.PP
The argument
\*Vtoken_val\*O
should be set to the value of the token when the token is represented by an
int or long data type, or be a
pointer to the data described by the token when the
token references a character string, or other variable length
field or structure.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The
.MS audgen 2
system call is privileged.
.PP
The maximum number of
\*Vtoken_type\*O,
\*Vtoken_val\*O
pairs allowed
is 128, with no more than 8 instances of any one \*Vtoken_type\*O.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.  Otherwise, a
value of \-1 is returned and the global integer variable
\*Verrno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP 18
[EACCES]
The user is not privileged for this operation.
.TP 18
[EINVAL]
The value supplied for an argument is invalid.
.TP 18
[E2BIG]
The audit record exceeds the audit record size.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
audgen(2)
.PP
\*EEnhanced Security\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
