.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: basename.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/13 15:47:29 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH basename 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lbasename\*O, \*Ldirname\*O, \*Ldirname_r\*O \- Returns the base filename or directory portion of a pathname
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <string.h>
.PP
\*Lchar * basename\*O (\*L
.nL
	\*Lchar * \*Vpath\*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lchar * dirname\*O (\*L
.nL
	\*Lchar * \*Vpath\*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint dirname_r\*O (\*L
.nL
	\*Lchar * \*Vpath\*L,
.nL
	\*Lchar * \*Vbuf\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vsize\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vpath\*O"
The string from which the base pathname or the directory portion is to
be extracted.
.LI "\*Vbuf\*O"
Specifies a working buffer to hold the
directory name component.
.LI "\*Vsize\*O"
Specifies the length of \*Vbuf\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "basename function"
.iX "dirname function"
.iX "base filename"
.iX "directories"
.iX "base filename"
.iX "displaying" "base filename"
.iX "displaying" "directory pathname"
.iX "pathnames" "directory"
.iX "directories" "pathname"
.iX "files" "base filename"
The \*Lbasename()\*O and \*Ldirname()\*O functions complement each
other.  The \*Lbasename()\*O function reads \*Vpath\*O and returns a
pointer to the portion of the string following the last \*L/\*O
(slash).
.PP
The \*Ldirname()\*O function reads \*Vpath\*O and returns a pointer to
a new string that consists of everything before the last \*L/\*O
(slash) character.  If there is no \*L/\*O
(slash), the \*Ldirname(\|)\*O function returns NULL.
.PP
.\"
.\"The following commented out per David Long.
.\"For example, the following would give a well-formed pathname:
.\".oS
.\"dirname(path) '/' basename(path)
.\".oE
.\"This would be an identical string to \*Vpath\*O.
.\".PP
The \*Ldirname_r()\*O function is the reentrant version of the
\*Ldirname()\*O function.  The \*Ldirname_r()\*O function
places the directory name component in the buffer pointed at by
\*Vbuf\*O.  If there is no \*L/\*O
(slash), the \*Ldirname(\|)\*O function returns -1.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon success, the \*Lbasename()\*O and \*Ldirname(\|)\*O functions
return the component string.  Upon failure, these functions return
NULL.
.PP
Upon success, the \*Ldirname_r()\*O function returns 0 (zero); upon
failure (for example, if there is no \*L/\*O (slash), the
\*Ldirname(\|)\*O function returns NULL and the \*Ldirname_r()\*O
function returns -1 and sets
\*Lerrno\*O.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Ldirname_r()\*O function fails, \*Lerrno\*O may be set to
the following:
.VL
.LI "[EINVAL]"
If \*Vbuf\*O is invalid or too small.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:
\*Lbasename\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
