.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: bcopy.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/13 15:55:43 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH bcopy 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lbcopy\*O, \*Lbcmp\*O, \*Lbzero\*O, \*Lffs\*O \- Performs bit and byte string operations
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lvoid bcopy (
.PP
    \*Lchar *\*Vsource\*L,
.nL
    char *\*Vdestination\*L,
.nL
    int \*Vlength \*L);
.sp .4v
int \*Lbcmp (
.nL
    char *\*Vstring1\*L,
.nL
    char *\*Vstring2\*L,
.nL
    int \*Vlength \*L);
.sp .4v
\*Lvoid bzero (
.nL
    char *\*Vstring\*L,
.nL
    int \*Vlength \*L);
.sp .4v
int \*Lffs (
.nL
    int \*Vindex \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vsource\*O"
Points to the original string for the
\*Lbcopy(\|)\*O
function.
.LI "\*Vdestination\*O"
Points to the destination string for the
\*Lbcopy(\|)\*O
function.
.LI "\*Vstring1\*O"
Specifies the byte string to be compared to the
\*Vstring2\*O
parameter
by the
\*Lbcmp(\|)\*O
function.
.LI "\*Vstring2\*O"
Specifies the byte string to be compared to the
\*Vstring1\*O
parameter
by the
\*Lbcmp(\|)\*O
function.
.LI "\*Vlength\*O"
Specifies the length (in bytes) of the string.
.LI "\*Vindex\*O"
Specifies the bit whose index should be returned.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "bcopy function"
.iX "bcmp function"
.iX "bzero function"
.iX "ffs function"
.iX "byte strings" "functions"
.iX "bit strings" "functions"
The \*Lbcopy(\|)\*O, \*Lbcmp(\|)\*O, and \*Lbzero(\|)\*O functions
operate on variable length strings of bytes.  Unlike the \*Lstring\*O
functions, they do not check for
null bytes.
.PP
The \*Lbcopy(\|)\*O function copies the value of the \*Vlength\*O
parameter in bytes from the string in the \*Vsource\*O parameter
to the string in the \*Vdestination\*O parameter.
.PP
The \*Lbcmp(\|)\*O function compares the byte string in the \*Vstring1\*O
parameter against the byte string of the \*Vstring2\*O parameter, returning
a 0 (zero) value if the two strings are identical and a nonzero value
otherwise.
.PP
The \*Lbzero(\|)\*O function nulls the string in the \*Vstring\*O
parameter, for the value of the \*Vlength\*O parameter in bytes.
.PP
The \*Lffs(\|)\*O function finds the first bit set passed to it
in the \*Vindex\*O parameter and returns the index of that bit.
Bits are numbered starting at 1. A return value of 0 (zero) indicates that
the value passed is 0.
.PP
.SH NOTES
.PP
\*OThe \*Lbcopy(\|)\*O function takes parameters
backwards from the \*Lstrcpy(\|)\*O function.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lmemccpy\*O(3),
\*Lstring\*O(3),
\*Lswab\*O(3)
.iX "bcopy function"
.iX "bcmp function"
.iX "bzero function"
.iX "ffs function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
