.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: bsearch.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/22 21:57:46 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.\"
.TH bsearch 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lbsearch\*O \- Performs a binary search
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <stdlib.h>
.PP
\*Lvoid *bsearch(
.nL
    \*Lconst void *\*Vkey\*L,
.nL
    \*Lconst void *\*Vbase\*L,
.nL
    \*Lsize_t \*Vnmemb\*L,
.nL
    \*Lsize_t \*Vsize\*L,
.nL
    \*Lint (*\*Vcompar\*L)(const void *, const void *));
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vkey\*O"
Target of search.
.LI "\*Vbase\*O"
Points to the initial object in the array.
.LI "\*Vnmemb\*O"
Specifies the number of elements in the array.
.LI "\*Vsize\*O"
Specifies the byte size of each element of the array.
.LI "\*Vcompar\*O"
Points to the comparison function, which is called with two parameters
that point to the \*Vkey\*O object and to an array member, in that order.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "bsearch function"
.iX "binary search function"
The \*Lbsearch(\|)\*O function does a binary search and
returns a pointer in an array that indicates where
an object is found. The array must have been previously
sorted in increasing order according to a provided comparison function,
\*Vcompar\*O.
.PP
The \*Vcompar\*O comparison function is called with two parameters
that point to objects that are compared during the search. This function
returns an integer less than, equal to, or greater than 0 (zero)
depending whether the object pointed to by the first \*Lconst void *\*O
parameter is to be considered less than, equal to, or greater than the
second \*Lconst void *\*O parameter.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Lbsearch(\|)\*O function is reentrant, but care should be
taken to ensure that the function supplied as argument \*Lcompar\*O
is also reentrant.
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion,
the \*Lbsearch(\|)\*O function returns a pointer to a matching
object in the array.  A NULL is returned
when no match is found.
When two or more objects compare equally, the returned object is
unspecified.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lhsearch\*O(3),
\*Llsearch\*O(3),
\*Lqsort\*O(3), \*Ltsearch\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
