.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: catclose.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/23 19:39:17 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH catclose 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lcatclose\*O \- Closes a specified message catalog
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <nl_types.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint catclose\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lnl_catd\*O \*Vcat_descriptor);\*L
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vcat_descriptor\*O"
Specifies an index into the message
catalog that is returned from a call to the \*Lcatopen(\|)\*O function.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "catclose function"
.iX "message catalog" "closing"
The \*Lcatclose(\|)\*O function
closes a message catalog specified by the
\*Vcat_descriptor\*O
parameter.
If a file
descriptor is used to implement the type \*Lnl_catd\*O,
that file descriptor will be closed.
.PP
Before exiting, programs should close any catalogs they have opened.
.PP
If a program accesses several
message catalogs, the \*LNL_MAXOPEN\*O number of
open catalogs can be reached.  In this event, some message catalogs must
be closed before more can be opened.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.\" .zA "defect, 6946, R1.1.1: Added note about cat_descriptor usage."
.\"
.\" changed returned cat_descriptor to simply cat_descriptor as per rnf 
.\"
The \*Vcat_descriptor\*O pointer is not valid once the
\*Lcatclose(\|)\*O function has been called for that
\*Vcat_descriptor\*O.
.\" This is a change from OSF/1 R1.0, where the
.\" \*Vcat_descriptor\*O pointer was still valid after a call to
.\" \*Lcatclose(\|)\*O.
.PP
.\" .zZ "defect, 6946, R1.1.1: Added note about cat_descriptor usage"
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Trial use.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned.
If the \*Vcat_descriptor\*O parameter value is not valid, the
\*Lcatclose(\|)\*O function returns a value of -1.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lcatopen\*O(3),
\*Lcatgets\*O(3).
.PP
Commands:
\*Ldspcat\*O(1),
\*Ldspmsg\*O(1),
\*Lgencat\*O(1),
\*Lmkcatdefs\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
