.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: catgets.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/22 22:45:23 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH catgets 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lcatgets\*O \- Retrieves a message from a catalog
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.nL
\*L#include <nl_types.h>\*O
.sp 0.4v
\*Lchar *catgets(\*O
.nL
        \*Lnl_catd\*O \*Vcat_descriptor\*L,\*O
.nL
        \*Lint \*Vset_number\*L,\*O
.nL
        \*Lint \*Vmessage_number\*L,\*O
.nL
        \*Lconst char *\*Vstring\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vcat_descriptor\*O"
Specifies a catalog descriptor that
is returned by the \*Lcatopen(\|)\*O function.
.LI "\*Vset_number\*O"
Specifies the set ID.
.LI "\*Vmessage_number\*O"
Specifies the message ID. The \*Vset_number\*O and
\*Vmessage_number\*O
parameters specify a particular message in the catalog
to retrieve.
.LI "\*Vstring\*O"
Specifies the default message string.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "catgets function"
.iX "message catalog" "retrieving a message from"
.iX "message" "retrieving from message catalog"
The \*Lcatgets(\|)\*O function
retrieves a message from a catalog after a successful call to the \*Lcatopen(\|)\*O
function. If the \*Lcatgets(\|)\*O function finds the specified
message, a pointer to the message text is returned. Otherwise, the function
returns a pointer to the default message string.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.\" .zA "defect, 6946, R1.1.1: Added note about cat_descriptor usage."
The returned \*Vcat_descriptor\*O pointer is not valid once the
\*Lcatclose(\|)\*O function has been called for that
\*Vcat_descriptor\*O.
.\" This is a change from OSF/1 R1.0, where the
.\" \*Vcat_descriptor\*O pointer was still valid after a call to
.\" \*Lcatclose(\|)\*O.
.\" .zZ "defect, 6946, R1.1.1: Added note about cat_descriptor usage."
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Trial use.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lcatgets(\|)\*O function
returns a pointer to the null terminated message string.
Otherwise, \*Vstring\*O is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
None possible.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lcatopen\*O(3),
\*Lcatclose\*O(3).
.PP
Commands:
\*Ldspcat\*O(1),
\*Ldspmsg\*O(1),
\*Lgencat\*O(1),
\*Lmkcatdefs\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
