.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: catopen.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/23 21:52:46 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH catopen 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lcatopen\*O \- Opens a specified message catalog
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <nl_types.h>
.sp 0.4v
nl_catd catopen(
.nL
	\*Lconst char *\*Vname\*L,
.nL
	int \*Voflag\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Specifies the catalog file to open.
.LI "\*Voflag\*O"
Specify the constant \*LNL_CAT_LOCALE\*O
to open the message catalog
for the locale set for the \*LLC_MESSAGES\*O variable; using
\*LNL_CAT_LOCALE\*O conforms to the XPG4 standard.
You can specify 0 (zero) for compatibility with XPG3; when
\*Voflag\*O is set to zero, the locale set for the
\*LLANG\*O variable determines the message catalog locale.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "catopen function"
.iX "message catalog" "opening"
The \*Lcatopen(\|)\*O function
opens a specified message catalog and returns a catalog descriptor
that is used to retrieve messages from the catalog.
.PP
The \*Vname\*O parameter specifies the name of the message catalog to
be opened.  If \*Vname\*O contains a / (slash), then \*Vname\*O
specifies a full pathname for the message catalog.  Otherwise, the
environment variable \*LNLSPATH\*O is used with substitutions based on
the value of the \*Vname\*O parameter and the value of the
\*LLC_MESSAGES\*O locale category.  \*LNLSPATH\*O is a colon-separated
list of pathnames. The \*Lcatopen(\|)\*O function makes variable
substitutions in each pathname and attempts to open the specified
catalog. If the open succeeds, it returns the catalog descriptor for
that catalog. If the open does not succeed, the \*Lcatopen(\|)\*O
function attempts to open the next pathname in the value of the
\*LNLSPATH\*O environment variable.
.PP
If \*LNLSPATH\*O does not exist in the environment, then the following
system default for \*LNLSPATH\*O is used:
.iS
/usr/lib/nls/msg/%L/%N
.iE
.PP
If no message catalog can be opened in any of the components specified
by \*LNLSPATH\*O, then \*Lcatopen(\|)\*O returns a value of -1 cast to
\*L(nl_catd)\*O.  This is not a valid catalog descriptor and causes
subsequent calls to \*Lcatgets(\|)\*O to return a pointer to the
default message string.
.PP
The meaning of each variable in the \*LNLSPATH\*O
environment variable is as follows:
.VL 1i
.LI "\*L%N\*O"
The value passed in the \*Vname\*O parameter.
.LI "\*L%L\*O"
The current locale name defined for the LC_MESSAGES category, for
example, \*Lfr_BE.ISO8859-1\*O.
.LI "\*L%l\*O"
The language element of the current locale name, for example, \*Lfr\*O.
.LI "\*L%t\*O"
The territory element from the current locale name, for example,
\*LBE\*O.
.LI "\*L%c\*O"
The code set element from the current locale name, for example,
\*LISO8859-1\*O.
.LI "\*L%\&%\&\*O"
A single % (percent sign) character.
.LE
.PP
For example, if the \*Lcatopen(\|)\*O function specifies
a catalog with the name \*Lmycmd.cat\*O, and the environment variables
are set as follows:
.PP
.iS
NLSPATH=../%N:/usr/lib/nls/msg/%L/%N:/usr/lib/nls/msg/%l/%N
LANG=fr_BE.ISO8859-1
.iE
.PP
then the application searches for the catalog in the following
order:
.PP
.iS
\&../mycmd.cat
/usr/lib/nls/msg/fr_BE.ISO88591-1/mycmd.cat
/usr/lib/nls/msg/fr/mycmd.cat
.iE
.PP
The \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O function sets the value of the
\*LLC_MESSAGES\*O category based on the values of the parameters to
\*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O and on the values of the \*LLC_MESSAGES\*O,
\*LLANG\*O, and \*LLC_ALL\*O environment variables.  The application
program must call \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O to set the \*LLC_MESSAGES\*O
category before calling \*Lcatopen(\|)\*O.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The message catalog is not opened until the first \*Lcatgets\*O
call that refers to the catalog.  Therefore, the overhead associated
with opening the catalog file:
.ML
.LI
Does not affect the speed of program startup
.LI
Is eliminated altogether if the catalog is
not used during a particular program execution cycle
.LE
.PP
Because the operation of opening the message catalog is deferred, the
\*Lcatopen(\|)\*O function always returns a valid catalog descriptor and
sets \*Lerrno\*O for a very limited number of conditions.
Therefore, you cannot directly determine
if the catalog open succeeds. You can indirectly check if the catalog
open succeeds by comparing the address of the string that the
\*Lcatgets(\|)\*O function returns with the address of the default
string. If the \*Lcatgets(\|)\*O function returns the default string,
then either the
catalog open failed or the catalog does not contain the requested
message.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Trial use.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
When successful, the \*Lcatopen(\|)\*O function returns a catalog
descriptor that can be used in calls to the \*Lcatgets(\|)\*O and
\*Lcatclose(\|)\*O functions. When the \*Lcatopen(\|)\*O function
does not succeed, it returns a value of -1 cast to
\*L(nl_catd)\*O.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occur, the \*Lcatopen(\|)\*O
function sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value. See the
\*LNOTES\*O section for information on the impact of deferred open.
.\"
.\" Following errnos revised as per comments from rnf, tw, and dl;
.\" Some errno values were commented out and one (ENOMEM) added.
.\" Others cannot be returned until actual open done by catgets; however,
.\" catgets must preserve the current errno and cannot set it.
.\"
.VL
.\" .LI "[EACCES]"
.\" Search permission is denied on a component of the pathname prefix; or read
.\" is denied for the named file.
.\" #ifdef SEC_ARCH
.\" .PP
.\" The requested action requires reading or writing in a directory to
.\" which the process does not have access with respect to one of the
.\" system's security policies.
.\" #endif /* SEC_ARCH */
.\" .LI "[EFAULT]"
.\" The \*Vname\*O parameter specifies an invalid file descriptor.
.LI "[EINTR]"
A signal was caught during the function.
.\" .LI "[ELOOP]"
.\" Too many links were encountered in translating the path of the file.
.\" .LI "[EMFILE]"
.\" The system limit for open file descriptors per
.\" process has already reached \*LOPEN_MAX\*O.
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]"
The length of the
path of the file
exceeds \*LPATH_MAX\*O, or a pathname component is longer than
\*LNAME_MAX\*O.
.LI "[ENOMEM]"
Insufficient storage space is available.
.\" .LI "[ENOTDIR]"
.\" A component of the pathname prefix is not a directory.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lcatgets\*O(3),
\*Lcatclose\*O(3),
\*Lsetlocale\*O(3).
.PP
Commands:
\*Ldspcat\*O(1),
\*Ldspmsg\*O(1),
\*Lgencat\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
