.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cbreak.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/14 22:31:22 $
.\"
.TH cbreak 3
.SH NAME
\*Lcbreak\*O, \*Lnocbreak\*O \- Sets or clears cbreak mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O

\*Lint cbreak(\|)\*O

\*Lint nocbreak(\|)\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "cbreak subroutine"
.iX "nocbreak subroutine"
The routine \*Lcbreak\*O puts the terminal into CBREAK mode.
In this mode, characters typed by the user are immediately
available to the
program and erase/kill character processing is not performed.
Interrupt and flow control characters are unaffected by this mode.
.PP
The routine \*Lnocbreak\*O disables CBREAK.
In this case the terminal driver will buffer input
until a newline or carriage return is typed.
.PP
The initial settings that determine whether or not a terminal is
in CBREAK mode are dependent on the terminal driver implementation.
As a result of this, it is not possible to determine if a terminal
is in CBREAK mode, as it is an inherited characteristic.
It is necessary to call \*Lcbreak\*O to ensure that the
terminal is set to the correct mode for the application.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lcbreak\*O and \*Lnobreak\*O
functions return OK on success and ERR on error.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
