.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cd_getdevmap.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/29 19:00:02 $
.\"
.\" Rock Ridge Group Rock Ridge Interchange Protocol
.TH cd_getdevmap 3
.SH NAME
\*Lcd_getdevmap\*O \- Get mappings of major/minor numbers of a file on a Rock Ridge format CD-ROM
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
CD-ROM library (\*Llibcdrom.so\*O, \*Llibcdrom.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.iX "cd_getdevmap function"
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/cdrom.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint cd_getdevmap (\*Vpath\*L, \*Vpathlen\*L, \*Vindex\*L, \*Vnew_major\*L, \*Vnew_minor\*L)
.nL
        char *\*Vpath\*L;
.nL
        int \*Vpathlen\*L;
.nL
        int \*Vindex\*L;
.nL
        int *\*Vnew_major\*L;
.nL
        int *\*Vnew_minor\*O;
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function gets the major and minor numbers of one device file on a mounted
Rock Ridge format CD-ROM. The argument \*Vpath\*O points to a file or directory
within the CD-ROM file hierarchy. The argument \*Vindex\*O refers to the number
\*Vindex\*O mapped device file. Mappings can be obtained by \*Vpath\*O or
\*Vindex\*O.
.PP
If \*Vindex\*O is zero, this function gets the mapped major and minor numbers
of the device file pointed to by \*Vpath\*O. The value of the mapped major
number shall be returned in \*Vnew_major\*O. The value of the mapped minor
number shall be returned in \*Vnew_minor\*O. The value of \*Vpathlen\*O is
not used.
.PP
If \*Vindex\*O is not zero, this function gets the major and minor numbers
and pathname of the mapped device file specified by \*Vindex\*O. Numbering for
\*Vindex\*O starts at one. The value of the mapped major number shall be
returned in \*Vnew_major\*O. The value of the mapped minor number shall be
returned in \*Vnew_minor\*O. The pathname of the device file shall be returned
in \*Vpath\*O. If the length of the pathname for the device file is longer than
\*Vpathlen\*O, the pathname returned in \*Vpath\*O will be truncated to
\*Vpathlen\*O length and will not be NULL terminated.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lcd_getdevmap\*O function will return the length of pathname if the
device file is successfully returned (a return value of zero means mapping not
found). Note: if the pathname is truncated, the return value will be larger
than \*Vpathlen\*O.
.PP
In case of error, -1 is returned and \*Verrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The maximum number of mappings is defined in \*L<sys/cdrom.h>\*O. The device
file mappings for a mounted CD-ROM are undone when the CD-ROM is unmounted.
.PP
The \*Vindex\*O numbers from 1 to \*Vn\*O (where \*Vn\*O is the number of the last
device file mapping) are always guaranteed to have a device file mapping
associated with the number. Thus if an application wishes to successively
delete all device file mappings, one at a time, it would call
\*Lcd_getdevmap(\|)\*O with \*Vindex\*O equal to 1, and then \*Lcd_setdevmap(\|)\*O
with CD_UNSETDMAP in a loop until \*Lcd_getdevmap(\|)\*O returns zero.
.SH ERRORS
.VL
.LI "[EACCESS]"
Search permission is denied for a component of the \*Vpath\*O prefix or read
permission on the device file pointed to by \*Vpath\*O is denied.
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]"
The length of the \*Vpath\*O string exceeds {PATH_MAX} or a pathname component
is longer than {NAME_MAX} while {_POSIX_NO_TRUNC} is in effect.
.LI "[ENOENT]"
A component of \*Vpath\*O does not exist or the \*Vpath\*O argument points to
an empty string.
.LI "[ENOTDIR]"
A component of the \*Vpath\*O prefix is not a directory.
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The address of \*Vpath\*O, \*Vnew_major\*O, or \*Vnew_minor\*O is invalid.
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The value of \*Vindex\*O or \*Vpathlen\*O is invalid. The argument \*Vpath\*O
points to a file or directory not within a CD-ROM file hierarchy. The file
pointed to by \*Vpath\*O is not a device file.
.LI "[ENXIO]"
The CD-ROM is not in the drive or a read error occurred.
.LI "[EINTR]"
A signal was caught during the \*Lcd_getdevmap(\|)\*O function.
.LI "[EMFILE]"
{OPEN_MAX} file descriptors are currently open in the calling process.
.LI "[ENFILE]"
The system file table is full.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lcddevsuppl\*O(8)
.PP
Functions: \*Lcd_setdevmap\*O(3)
.PP
Files: \*L<sys/cdrom.h>\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
