.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cd_suf.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/16 19:19:18 $
.\"
.\" Rock Ridge Group Rock Ridge Interchange Protocol
.TH cd_suf 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lcd_suf\*O \- Read System Use Field from a specified System Use Area on a Rock Ridge format CD-ROM
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
CD-ROM library (\*Llibcdrom.so\*O, \*Llibcdrom.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "cd_suf function"
.sS
\*L#include <sys/cdrom.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint cd_suf (path, fsec, signature, index, buf, buflen)
.nL
         char *\*Vpath\*L;
.nL
         int \*Vfsec\*L;
.nL
         char \*Vsignature\*L[2];
.nL
         int \*Vindex\*L;
.nL
         char *\*Vbuf\*L;
.nL
         int \*Vbuflen\*O;
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Lcd_suf(\|)\*O"
Returns a System Use Field in the System Use Area for \*Vpath\*O.
.LI "\*Vpath\*O"
Points to a file or directory within the CD-ROM file hierarchy.
.LI "\*Vfsec\*O"
Specifies the File Section of that file. The numbering starts with one. If
\*Vfsec\*O is set to -1, the System Use Area of the last File Section of that
file is assumed.
.LI "\*Vsignature\*O"
The 2-byte signature to look for and return from the System Use Area.
.LI "\*Vindex\*O"
The occurrence of \*Vsignature\*O to return. If \*Vsignature\*O is a NULL
pointer, returns the System Use Field specified by \*Vindex\*O starting from
the beginning of the System Use Area. Otherwise, returns the occurrence of
\*Vsignature\*O specified by \*Vindex\*O. The \*Vindex\*O number of the first
System Use Field of any \*Vsignature\*O is one.
.LI "\*Vbuf\*O"
The buffer in which to place the System Use Field.
.LI "\*Vbuflen\*O"
The buffer length of \*Vbuf\*O.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lcd_suf\*O function will return the number of bytes placed in \*Vbuf\*O
if successful. The \*Lcd_suf\*O function will return 0 if the \*Vsignature\*O
field is not found. In case of error, -1 is returned and \*Verrno\*O is set to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The \*Lcd_suf(\|)\*O function will fail if:
.VL
.LI "[EACCESS]"
Search permission is denied for a component of the \*Vpath\*O prefix or
read permission on the file or directory pointed to by \*Vpath\*O is denied.
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]"
The length of the \*Vpath\*O string exceeds {PATH_MAX} or a pathname
component is longer than {NAME_MAX} while {_POSIX_NO_TRUNC} is in effect.
.LI "[ENOENT]"
A component of \*Vpath\*O does not exist or the \*Vpath\*O argument points to
an empty string. The File Section indicated by \*Vfsec\*O has no System Use
Area.
.LI "[ENOTDIR]"
A component of the \*Vpath\*O prefix is not a directory.
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The address of \*Vbuf\*O, \*Vsignature\*O, or \*Vpath\*O is invalid.
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The value of \*Vfsec\*O, \*Vindex\*O, or \*Vbuflen\*O is invalid. The argument
\*Vpath\*O points to a file or directory not within a CD-ROM file hierarchy.
.LI "[ENODEV]"
The Volume containing the File Section indicated by \*Vfsec\*O is not mounted.
.LI "[ENXIO]"
The CD-ROM is not in the drive or a read error occurred.
.LI "[EINTR]"
A signal was caught during the \*Lcd_suf()\*O function.
.LI "[EMFILE]"
{OPEN_MAX} file descriptors are currently open in the calling process.
.LI "[ENFILE]"
The system file table is full.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lcdsuf\*O(1)
.PP
Files: \*L<sys/cdrom.h>\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
