.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cd_setdevmap.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/29 19:15:35 $
.\"
.\" Rock Ridge Group Rock Ridge Interchange Protocol
.TH cd_setdevmap 3
.SH NAME
\*Lcd_setdevmap\*O \- Set mappings of major/minor numbers of a file on a Rock Ridge format CD-ROM
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
CD-ROM library (\*Llibcdrom.so\*O, \*Llibcdrom.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.iX "cd_setdevmap function"
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/cdrom.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint cd_setdevmap (\*Vpath\*L, \*Vcmd\*L, \*Vnew_major\*L, \*Vnew_minor\*L)
.nL
         char *\*Vpath\*L;
.nL
         int \*Vcmd\*L;
.nL
         int *\*Vnew_major\*L;
.nL
         int *\*Vnew_minor\*L;
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function sets or unsets (based on \*Vcmd\*O) the major and minor numbers
of one device file on a mounted Rock Ridge format CD-ROM. The argument
\*Vpath\*O points to a file or directory within the CD-ROM file hierarchy.
.PP
If \*Vcmd\*O is CD_SETDMAP, this function maps the \*Vnew_major\*O major number
and the \*Vnew_minor\*O minor number to the device file pointed to by
\*Vpath\*O. The \*Vnew_major\*O argument specifies the new major number for the
device file. The \*Vnew_minor\*O argument specifies the new minor number for
the device file. Any device file mapping for the device file \*Vpath\*O set
with a previous invocation of \*Lcd_setdevmap(\|)\*O is overridden by this
invocation of \*Lcd_setdevmap(\|)\*O.
.PP
If \*Vcmd\*O is CD_UNSETDMAP, this function unmaps the mapped major and minor
numbers of the device file pointed to by \*Vpath\*O. The value of the recorded
major number on the CD-ROM shall be returned in \*Vnew_major\*O. The value of
the recorded minor number on the CD-ROM shall be returned in \*Vnew_minor\*O.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
For CD_SETDMAP, \*Lcd_setdevmap\*O will return one if the device file is
successfully mapped (a return value of zero means no more mappings allowed).
.PP
For CD_UNSETDMAP, \*Lcd_setdevmap\*O will return one if the device file is
successfully unmapped (a return value of zero means mapping not found).
.PP
In case of error, -1 is returned and \*Verrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The use of \*Lcd_setdevmap(\|)\*O is restricted to the superuser.
The maximum number of mappings is defined in \*L<sys/cdrom.h>\*O.
Mappings should be established before affected device files are used. If this
function is applied for device files that have already been opened, the effect
of this function on these files is undefined. The device file mappings for a
mounted CD-ROM are eliminated when the CD-ROM is unmounted.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.VL
.LI "[EACCESS]"
Search permission is denied for a component of the \*Vpath\*O prefix or read
permission on the device file pointed to by \*Vpath\*O is denied.
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]"
The length of the \*Vpath\*O string exceeds {PATH_MAX} or a pathname component is
longer than {NAME_MAX} while {_POSIX_NO_TRUNC} is in effect.
.LI "[ENOENT]"
A component of \*Vpath\*O does not exist or the \*Vpath\*O argument points to
an empty string.
.LI "[ENOTDIR]"
A component of the \*Vpath\*O prefix is not a directory.
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The address of \*Vpath\*O, \*Vnew_major\*O, or \*Vnew_minor\*O is invalid.
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The value of \*Vcmd\*O is invalid. The argument \*Vpath\*O points to a file or
directory not within a CD-ROM file hierarchy. The file pointed to by \*Vpath\*O
is not a device file.
.LI "[EPERM]"
User does not have appropriate privileges to set or unset device file
major/minor values.
.LI "[ENXIO]"
The CD-ROM is not in the drive or a read error occurred.
.LI "[EINTR]"
A signal was caught during the \*Lcd_setdevmap(\|)\*O function.
.LI "[EMFILE]"
{OPEN_MAX} file descriptors are currently open in the calling process.
.LI "[ENFILE]"
The system file table is full.
.LI
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lcddevsuppl\*O(8)
.PP
Functions: \*Lcd_getdevmap\*O(3)
.PP
Files: \*L<sys/cdrom.h>\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
