.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cfgetispeed.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/23 16:40:44 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.\"
.TH cfgetispeed 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lcfgetispeed\*O \- Gets the input baud rate for a terminal
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <termios.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lspeed_t cfgetispeed(
.nL
        \*Lconst struct termios *\*Vtermios_p\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vtermios_p\*O"
Points to a \*Ltermios\*O structure containing the input baud rate.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "cfgetispeed function"
.iX "baud rate" "returning input from termios"
.iX "terminal" "returning baud rate using cfgetispeed function"
The \*Lcfgetispeed(\|)\*O
function extracts the input baud rate from the \*Ltermios\*O
structure to which the \*Vtermios_p\*O parameter points.
.PP
If the value in the \*Ltermios\*O structure was not obtained from a
successful call to the \*Ltcgetattr(\|)\*O function,
the behavior is undefined.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lcfgetispeed(\|)\*O
function returns a value of type \*Lspeed_t\*O
representing the input baud rate.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lcfgetospeed\*O(3),
\*Lcfsetispeed\*O(3),
\*Lcfsetospeed\*O(3),
\*Ltcgetattr\*O(3).
.PP
Files:
\*Ltermios\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
