.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cfsetispeed.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/23 17:00:48 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH cfsetispeed 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lcfsetispeed\*O \- Sets input baud rate for a terminal
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <termios.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint cfsetispeed(
.nL
	\*Lstruct termios *\*Vtermios_p\*L;
.nL
	\*Lspeed_t \*Vspeed\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vtermios_p\*O"
Points to a \*Ltermios\*O structure containing the input baud rate.
.LI "\*Vspeed\*O"
Specifies the new input baud rate.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "cfsetispeed function"
.iX "baud rate" "setting input in termios"
The \*Lcfsetispeed(\|)\*O function sets the input baud rate stored in
the structure pointed to by the \*Vtermios_p\^\*O parameter
to the value specified by the \*Vspeed\^\*O parameter.
.PP
If the input baud rate is set to 0 (zero), the input baud rate
will be specified by the value of the output baud rate.
.PP
There is no effect on the baud rates set in the hardware
until a subsequent successful call is made to the
\*Ltcsetattr(\|)\*O function on the same \*Ltermios\*O structure.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lcfsetispeed(\|)\*O function returns a value of 0 (zero).
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lcfgetispeed\*O(3),
\*Lcfgetospeed\*O(3),
\*Lcfsetospeed\*O(3),
\*Ltcsetattr\*O(3).
.PP
Files:
\*Ltermios\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
