.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cfsetospeed.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/23 17:08:57 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH cfsetospeed 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lcfsetospeed\*O \- Sets the output baud rate for a terminal
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <termios.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint cfsetospeed(
.nL
	\*Lstruct termios *\*Vtermios_p\*L,
.nL
	\*Lspeed_t \*Vspeed\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vtermios_p\*O"
Points to a \*Ltermios\*O structure containing the output baud rate.
.LI "\*Vspeed\*O"
Specifies the new output baud rate.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "cfsetospeed function"
.iX "baud rate" "setting output in termios"
The \*Lcfsetospeed(\|)\*O function
sets the output baud rate stored in the structure pointed to by the
\*Vtermios_p\^\*O parameter to the speed specified by the
\*Vspeed\^\*O parameter.
.PP
The zero baud rate, B0, is used to terminate the connection. If B0 is
specified, the modem control lines are no longer asserted.
Normally, this disconnects the line.
.PP
There is no effect on the baud rates set in the hardware or on
modem control lines until a
subsequent successful call is made to the \*Ltcsetattr(\|)\*O
function on the same \*Ltermios\*O structure.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lcfsetospeed(\|)\*O function returns a value of 0 (zero).
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lcfgetispeed\*O(3),
\*Lcfgetospeed\*O(3),
\*Lcfsetispeed\*O(3),
\*Ltcsetattr\*O(3).
.PP
Files:
\*Ltermios\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
