.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: clock_gettime.3,v $ $Revision: 1.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/11/25 13:54:08 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)clock_gettime.3  6.5 1/7/92
.TH clock_gettime 3
.SH NAME
\*Lclock_gettime\*O, \*Lclock_settime\*O \- Get or set the time for the specified  clock (P1003.4/D11)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
#include \*L<time.h>\*O
.PP
int \*Lclock_gettime\*O (
.br
int \*Vclock_id\*O,
.br
struct \*Ltimespec\*O \*V*tp\*O);
.PP
int \*Lclock_settime\*O (
.br
int \*Vclock_id\*O,
.br
const struct \*Ltimespec\*O \*V*tp\*O);
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 12
.I clock_id
The clock type used to obtain the time or the clock that is
set. The CLOCK_REALTIME
clock is supported and represents the TIME-OF-DAY clock for the system.
.TP
.I *tp
A pointer to a \*Ltimespec\*O data structure.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "clock_gettime function"
.iX "clock_settime function"
.iX "clocks" "getting system time"
.iX "clocks" "setting system time"
The \*Lclock_gettime\*O function
returns the current time (in seconds and nanoseconds) for the specified clock.
The \*Lclock_settime\*O function sets the
specified clock. The CLOCK_REALTIME
clock measures the amount of time
elapsed since 00:00:00:00 January 1,
1970 Greenwich Mean Time (GMT), otherwise known as the
Epoch. Time values  that fall between two non-negative integer multiples
of the resolution are truncated down to the smaller multiple of the resolution.
.PP
You must have \*Lsuperuser\*O privileges to use the use the
\*Lclock_settime\*O function.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On a successful call to the \*Lclock_gettime\*O or \*Lclock_settime\*O
functions, a value of 0 is returned.
.PP
On an unsuccessful call,
a value of \-1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate that an error occurred.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The \*Lclock_gettime\*O, and \*Lclock_settime\*O,
functions fail under the following conditions:
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The \*Vclock_id\*O argument does not specify a known clock.
.sp
The value pointed to by the \*Vtp\*O argument to the
\*Lclock_settime\*O function is outside the range for the given \*Vclock_id\*O.
.sp
The \*Vtp\*O argument specified a nanosecond value less than zero or greater
than or equal to 1000 million.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The requesting process does not have the appropriate privilege to
set the specified clock.
.TP 15
[ENOSYS]
The functions \*Lclock_gettime\*O and \*Lclock_settime\*O are not supported
by this implementation.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Ltime\*O(1), \*Lclock_getres\*O(3), \*Lclock_getdrift\*O(3),
\*Lclock_setdrift\*O(3), \*Lctime\*O(3), \*Ltimer_gettime\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
