.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: clock_getres.3,v $ $Revision: 1.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/11/25 13:53:58 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)clock_getres.3  6.5 1/7/92
.TH clock_getres 3
.SH NAME
\*Lclock_getres\*O \- Get the resolution for the specified  clock (P1003.4/D11)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
#include \*L<time.h>\*O
.PP
int \*Lclock_getres\*O (
.br
int \*Vclock_id\*O,
.br
struct \*Ltimespec\*O \*V*res\*O);
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 12
.I clock_id
The clock type used to obtain the resolution.
The CLOCK_REALTIME
clock is supported and represents the TIME-OF-DAY clock for the system.
.TP
.I *res
A pointer to the \*Ltimespec\*O data structure that receives the value of the
clock's resolution.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "clock_getres function"
.iX "clocks" "getting resolution"
The \*Lclock_getres\*O function
returns the resolution value for the specified clock.
If the \*Vres\*O argument is NULL, the clock resolution is not returned.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On a successful call, a value of 0 is returned.
.PP
On an unsuccessful call,
a value of \-1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate that an error occurred.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The \*Lclock_getres\*O function fails under the following conditions:
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The \*Vclock_id\*O argument does not specify a known clock.
.TP 15
[ENOSYS]
The \*Lclock_getres\*O function is not supported by this implementation.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Ltime\*O(1), \*Lclock_getdrift\*O(3), \*Lclock_setdrift\*O(3),
\*Lctime\*O(3), \*Ltimer_settime\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
