.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: conv.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/13 16:00:40 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH conv 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ltoascii\*O, \*Ltolower\*O, \*L_tolower\*O, \*Ltoupper\*O, \*L_toupper\*O \- Translate characters
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <ctype.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint toascii(
.nL
        \*Lint \*Vc\*L);\*O
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint tolower\*L(\*O
.nL
        \*Lint \*Vc\*L);\*O
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint _tolower\*L(\*O
.nL
        \*Lint \*Vc\*L);\*O
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint toupper\*L(\*O
.nL
        \*Lint \*Vc\*L);\*O
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint _toupper\*L(\*O
.nL
        \*Lint \*Vc\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vc\*O"
Specifies the character to be converted.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "character translation functions"
.iX "toascii function"
.iX "tolower function"
.iX "_tolower macro"
.iX "toupper function"
.iX "_toupper macro"
.iX "character" "translating to 7-bit ASCII"
.iX "character" "translating to lowercase"
.iX "character" "translating to uppercase"
The \*Ltoascii(\|)\*O, \*Ltolower(\|)\*O, \*L_tolower(\|)\*O,
\*Ltoupper(\|)\*O, and \*L_toupper(\|)\*O functions translate all characters,
including multibyte characters, to their specified character values.
.PP
The \*Ltoascii(\|)\*O function converts its input to a 7-bit
ASCII character.
.PP
The \*Ltolower(\|)\*O function takes an \*Lint\*O value that can be
represented as an \*Lunsigned char\*O or the value of EOF
(defined in the \*Lstdio.h\*O header file) as its input.
.PP
When the input of the \*Ltolower(\|)\*O
function expresses an uppercase letter, as defined by character type
information in the program locale (category LC_CTYPE),
the corresponding lowercase letter is returned.
All other input values in the
domain are returned unchanged. The \*Ltolower(\|)\*O function has
as its domain the range -1 through 255.
.PP
In the C locale, or in a locale where case-conversion information
is not defined, the \*Ltolower(\|)\*O function determines the case of
characters according to the rules of the ASCII-coded
character set. Characters outside the ASCII range of characters are
returned unchanged.
.PP
The \*L_tolower(\|)\*O macro is equivalent to the \*Ltolower(\|)\*O
function, but executes faster. If the value of the \*Vc\*O parameter
to the \*L_tolower(\|) macro does not have a corresponding lowercase
character, the results of the function are undefined.
.PP
The \*Ltoupper(\|)\*O function takes an \*Lint\*O value that can be
represented as an \*Lunsigned char\*O or the value of EOF
(defined in the \*Lstdio.h\*O header file) as its input.
.PP
When the input of the \*Ltoupper(\|)\*O
function expresses a lowercase letter, as defined by character type
information in the program locale (category \*LLC_CTYPE\*O),
the corresponding uppercase letter is returned.
All other input values in the
domain are returned unchanged. The \*Ltoupper(\|)\*O function has
as its domain the range -1 through 255.
.PP
In the C locale, or in a locale where case-conversion information
is not defined, the \*Ltoupper(\|)\*O function determines the case of
characters according to the rules of the ASCII-coded
character set. Characters outside the ASCII range of characters are
returned unchanged.
.PP
The \*L_toupper(\|)\*O macro is equivalent to the \*Ltoupper(\|)\*O
function, but executes faster. If the value of the \*Vc\*O parameter
to the \*L_toupper(\|) macro does not have a corresponding uppercase
character, the results of the function are undefined.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*LLC_CTYPE\*O category of the \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O function affects
all conversions.  See the \*Lsetlocale\*O(3)
reference page for more information.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use (\*Ltolower(\|)\*O, \*Ltoupper(\|)\*O).
.nL
Trial use (\*L_tolower(\|)\*O, \*L_toupper(\|)\*O, \*Ltoascii(\|)\*O).
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Ltoascii(\|)\*O function returns the logical AND of parameter \*Vc\*O and
the value 0X7F.
.PP
When the \*Vc\*O parameter
is a character for which the \*Lisupper(\|)\*O function is
TRUE, there is a corresponding character for which the
\*Lislower(\|)\*O function is
also TRUE. That lowercase character is returned by the \*Ltolower(\|)\*O
function or by the \*L_tolower(\|)\*O macro. Otherwise, the \*Vc\*O
parameter is returned.
.PP
When the \*Vc\*O parameter is a character for which the \*Lislower(\|)\*O
function is TRUE, there is a corresponding character for which the
\*Lisupper(\|)\*O function is
also TRUE. That uppercase character is returned by the \*Ltoupper(\|)\*O
function or by the \*L_toupper(\|)\*O macro. Otherwise, the \*Vc\*O
parameter is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lctype\*O(3),
\*Lsetlocale\*O(3),
\*Ltowlower\*O(3)/\*Ltowupper\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
