.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: crypt.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:21:21 $
.\"
.\" Ported to DEC OSF/1 T1.4-5 from ULTRIX on 7/29   dms
.\" Spider Boardman is the DRI
.TH crypt 3
.SH NAME
.PP
crypt, setkey, encrypt \- DES encryption
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>
\f(CWchar *crypt\f1(
	\f(CWchar *\f2key,
	\f(CWchar *\f2salt\f1);
.PP
#include <unistd.h>
\f(CWvoid setkey\f1(
	\f(CWchar *\f2key\f1);
.PP
#include <unistd.h>
\f(CWvoid encrypt\f1(
	\f(CWchar *\f2block,
	\f(CWint \f2edflag\f1);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "encryption" "crypt subroutine"
.iX "crypt subroutine" "encryption"
.iX "NBS Data Encryption Standard"
.iX "Data Encryption Standard"
The
.PN crypt
subroutine
is the password encryption routine.
It is based on the NBS Data Encryption Standard, with
variations intended to frustrate use of hardware
implementations of the DES for key search.
.PP
The first argument to
.PN crypt
is normally a user's typed password.
The second is a 2-character string chosen from the
set [a-zA-Z0-9./].
The
.I salt
string is used to perturb the DES algorithm in one of 4096
different ways, after which the password
is used as the key to encrypt repeatedly a constant string.
The returned value points to the encrypted password,
in the same alphabet as the salt.
The first two characters are the salt itself.
.PP
The other entries provide primitive
access to the actual DES algorithm.
The argument of
.PN setkey
is a character array of length 64 containing only the characters
with numerical value 0 and 1.
If this string is divided into groups of 8,
the low-order bit in each group is ignored,
leading to a 56-bit key which is set into the machine.
In all cases the
.PN setkey
function will set
.I errno
to ENOSYS
and return if the optional encryption software is not present.
.PP
The argument to the
.PN encrypt
entry is likewise a character array of length 64
containing 0s and 1s.
The argument array is modified in place
to a similar array
representing the bits of the argument after having been
subjected to the DES algorithm using the \f2key\f1 set by
.PN setkey .
The
.PN encrypt
function will set
.I errno
to ENOSYS
and return if
.I edflag
is non-zero and the optional encryption software is not
present.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The return value from
.PN crypt
points to static data areas whose content is overwritten
by each call.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
login(1), passwd(1), yppasswd(1), getpass(3), passwd(4)
.br
\*EEnhanced Security\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
