.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ctermid.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 15:05:43 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH ctermid 3
.SH NAME
\*Lctermid - \*OGenerates the pathname for the controlling terminal
.SH LIBRARY
\*OStandard I/O Package \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
.PP 
\*L#include <stdio.h>
.nL
char *ctermid (
.nL
    char *\*Vs \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vs"
\*OIf the \*Vs\*O parameter is a null pointer,
the string is stored in an internal static area and the address is
returned. The next call to the \*Lctermid(\|)\*O function
overwrites the contents of the internal static area.
.PP
\*OIf the \*Vs\*O parameter is not a null pointer, it
points to a character array of at least L_ctermid bytes.
L_ctermid is defined in the \*Lstdio.h\*O header file,
and has a value greater than 0 (zero).  The pathname is placed
in this array and the value of the \*Vs\*O parameter is returned.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "ctermid function"
.iX "controlling terminal" "generating pathname for"
.iX "process" "pathname for controlling terminal"
.PP 
The \*Lctermid(\|)\*O function generates the pathname of the
controlling terminal for the current process and stores it in a string.
.PP 
The \*Lctermid(\|)\*O function differs from the \*Lttyname(\|)\*O
function in that the \*Lttyname(\|)\*O function is supplied
a file descriptor and returns the actual name of the terminal associated
with that file descriptor, while the \*Lctermid(\|)\*O function
returns a string (\*L/dev/tty\*O) that refers to the terminal if
used as a filename. Thus, the \*Lttyname(\|)\*O function is useful
only if the process already has at least one file open to a terminal.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.PP
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lctermid(\|)\*O
function returns the address of the generated pathname.
Otherwise, an empty string is returned.  Access to a pathname
returned by the
\*Lctermid(\|)\*O
function is not guaranteed.
.PP 
The
\*Lctermid_r(\|)\*O
function, the
reentrant version of the
\*Lctermid(\|)\*O
function, always returns null if the argument passed is null.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
\*OFunctions:
\*Lttyname\*O(3)
.iX "ctermid function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
