.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ctype.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/23 18:16:20 $
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH ctype 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lisalpha\*O, \*Lisupper\*O, \*Lislower\*O, \*Lisdigit\*O, \*Lisxdigit\*O, \*Lisalnum\*O, \*Lisspace\*O, \*Lispunct\*O, \*Lisprint\*O, \*Lisgraph\*O, \*Liscntrl\*O, \*Lisascii\*O \- Classify characters
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <ctype.h>
.PP
\*Lint isalnum(
.nL
int \*Vc\*L);
.PP
\*Lint isalpha(
.nL
        int \*Vc\*L);
.PP
\*Lint isascii(
.nL
        int \*Vc\*L);
.PP
\*Lint iscntrl(
        int \*Vc\*L);
.PP
\*Lint isdigit(
.nL
        int \*Vc\*L);
.PP
\*Lint isgraph(
.nL
        int \*Vc\*L);
.PP
\*Lint islower(
.nL
        int \*Vc\*L);
.PP
\*Lint isprint(
.nL
        int \*Vc\*L);
.PP
\*Lint ispunct(
.nL
        int \*Vc\*L);
.PP
\*Lint isspace(
.nL
        int \*Vc\*L);
.PP
\*Lint isupper(
.nL
        int \*Vc\*L);
.PP
\*Lint isxdigit(
.nL
        int \*Vc\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vc\*O"
Specifies the character to be tested. In all cases, this
parameter is an  \*Lint\*O data type, whose value must be representable as an
\*Lunsigned char\*O or must equal the value of the macro \*LEOF\*O
(defined in the \*Lstdio.h\*O include file). When this parameter has a
value that cannot be represented as an \*Lunsigned char\*O or
\*LEOF\*O, the result is undefined.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ctype functions"
.iX "isalpha function"
.iX "isupper function"
.iX "islower function"
.iX "isdigit function"
.iX "isxdigit function"
.iX "isalnum function"
.iX "isspace function"
.iX "ispunct function"
.iX "isprint function"
.iX "isgraph function"
.iX "iscntrl function"
.iX "isascii function"
.iX "alphanumeric class type test"
.iX "alpha class type test"
.iX "control character class type test"
.iX "digit class type test"
.iX "graph class type test"
.iX "lowercase class type test"
.iX "print class type test"
.iX "punctuation class type test"
.iX "space class type test"
.iX "uppercase class type test"
.iX "xdigit class type test"
.iX "character" "classification functions"
The \*Lctype\*O functions tests
for membership in a character class in the current locale.
Each function tests to see if a character is part of a different
character class.
.PP
If the character is part of the character class,
the function returns a nonzero value for true; otherwise, the function returns a
value of 0 (zero) for false.
.PP
Each function is named by adding the prefix \*Lis\*O to the
name of the character class for which the function tests. For example,
the \*Lisalpha(\|)\*O function tests whether the character
specified by the \*Vc\*O parameter belongs to the \*Lalpha\*O class.
.PP
The following lists the function names and describes the conditions under
which the functions return a true value.
.VL 10
.LI "\*Lisalnum(\|)\*O"
When \*Vc\*O is a character of class \*Lalpha\*O or class \*Ldigit\*O in the
program's current locale.
.LI "\*Lisalpha(\|)\*O"
When \*Vc\*O is a character of class \*Lalpha\*O in the program's
current locale. Characters in classes \*Llower\*O and \*Lupper\*O
automatically belong to class \*Lalpha\*O.
.LI "\*Lisascii(\|)\*O"
When \*Vc\*O is a 7-bit US-ASCII character whose value
is in the range 0 to 0177 (0 to 0x7F), inclusive.
.LI "\*Liscntrl(\|)\*O"
When \*Vc\*O is a character of class \*Lcntrl\*O in the program's
current locale.
.LI "\*Lisdigit(\|)\*O"
When \*Vc\*O is a character of class \*Ldigit\*O in the program's
current locale. The following characters are included in this class:
.IP
.oS
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
.oE
.LI "\*Lisgraph(\|)\*O"
When \*Vc\*O is a character of class \*Lprint\*O in the program's
current locale. Characters in classes \*Lalpha\*O, \*Ldigit\*O, and
\*Lpunct\*O are automatically in class \*Lgraph\*O.
Unlike \*Lisprint(\|)\*O, \*Lisgraph(\|)\*O returns FALSE
for the space character.
.LI "\*Lislower(\|)\*O"
When \*Vc\*O is a character of class \*Llower\*O in the program's
current locale. At a minimum, the 26 lowercase US-ASCII characters are
included in this class. These are:
.IP
.oS
a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z
.oE
.LI "\*Lisprint(\|)\*O"
When \*Vc\*O is a character of class \*Lprint\*O in the program's
current locale. All characters in the class \*Lgraph\*O and the
space character are automatically included in the class \*Lprint\*O.
.LI "\*Lispunct(\|)\*O"
When \*Vc\*O is a character of class \*Lpunct\*O in the program's
current locale.
.LI "\*Lisspace(\|)\*O"
When \*Vc\*O is a character of class \*Lspace\*O in the program's
current locale. At a minimum, the space, form-feed, newline,
carriage-return, tab, and vertical-tab characters are included in this class.
.LI "\*Lisupper(\|)\*O"
When \*Vc\*O is a character of class \*Lupper\*O in the program's
current locale. At a minimum, the 26 uppercase US-ASCII characters are
included in this class. These are:
.IP
.oS
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
.oE
.LI "\*Lisxdigit(\|)\*O"
When \*Vc\*O is a character of class \*Lxdigit\*O in the program's
current locale. The following characters are included in this class:
.IP
.oS
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 A B C D E F a b c d e f
.oE
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*LLC_CTYPE\*O category of the \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O function affects
all conversions.
.PP
In the C locale, or in a locale where character-type information is not
defined, characters are classified according to the rules of the US-ASCII
7-bit coded character set. For any character value greater than octal 177
(0177 in C-language context) the value 0 (zero) is returned.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion of any function, a nonzero (TRUE) value
is returned.  Otherwise, the value 0 (FALSE) is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Files:
\*Llocale\*O(4).
.PP
Functions:
\*Lctype\*O(3),
\*Lsetlocale\*O(3),
\*Lwctype\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
