.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cuserid.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 15:06:59 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
.\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail 
.\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH cuserid 3
.SH NAME
\*Lcuserid\*O \- Gets the alphanumeric username associated with the current process
.SH LIBRARY
\*OStandard I/O Package \*O(\*Llibc.a\*O) \*L
.wH .rS
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
.PP 
\*L#include <stdio.h>
.nL
.sp .4v
char *cuserid (
.nL
    char *\*Vs \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vs"
\*OIf the \*Vs\*O parameter is a null pointer,
the character string is stored into an internal static area, the address
of which is returned.  This internal static area is overwritten with
the next call to
\*Lcuserid(\|)\*O.
.PP
\*OIf the \*Vs\*O parameter is not a null pointer, the
character string is stored into the array pointed to by the \*Vs\*O
parameter.  This array must contain at least L_cuserid bytes.
L_cuserid is a constant defined in the \*Lstdio.h\*O
header file, and has a value greater than 0 (zero).
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "cuserid function"
.iX "process" "return associated username"
.iX "username" "return for process"
.PP 
The \*Lcuserid(\|)\*O function generates a character string representing
the username of the owner of the current process.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
If the
\*Vs\*O
parameter
is not a null pointer,
the
\*Lcuserid(\|)\*O
function returns
\*Vs\*O.
If the \*Vs\*O parameter is not
a null pointer and the username cannot be found,
an empty string is returned.
.PP 
If the
\*Vs\*O
parameter
is a null pointer and the username cannot be found,
the \*Lcuserid(\|)\*O function
returns a null pointer.
.PP 
The reentrant version of
\*Lcuserid(\|)\*O
always returns null if the argument passed is null.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lgetlogin\*O(2),
\*Lgetpwent\*O(3)
.iX "cuserid function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
