.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dbm.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/13 16:13:12 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" 
.\" @(#)dbm.3	6.4 (Berkeley) 4/10/89
.\" 
.TH dbm 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ldbminit\*O, \*Lfetch\*O, \*Lstore\*O, \*Ldelete\*O, \*Lfirstkey\*O, \*Lnextkey\*O, \*Lforder\*O \- Database subroutines
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
DBM Library (\*Llibdbm.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.iS
\*L#include <dbm.h>\*O
.PP
\*Ltypedef struct {
    char *\*Vdptr\*L;
    int \*Vdsize\*L;
} datum;
.PP
\*Lint dbminit(
    char *\*Vfile\*L );
.PP
\*Ldatum fetch(
    \*Ldatum \*Vkey\*L );
.PP
\*Lint store(
    datum \*Vkey\*L,
    datum \*Vcontent\*L );
.PP
\*Lint delete(
    datum \*Vkey\*L );
.PP
\*Ldatum firstkey( void );
.PP
\*Ldatum nextkey(
    datum \*Vkey\*L );
.PP
\*Llong forder(
    datum \*Vkey\*L );
.iE
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vfile\*O"
Specifies the database file.
.LI "\*Vkey\*O"
Specifies the key.
.LI "\*Vcontent\*O"
Specifies a value associated with the
\*Vkey\*O
parameter.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "dbminit function"
.iX "fetch function"
.iX "store function"
.iX "delete function"
.iX "firstkey function"
.iX "nextkey function"
.iX "forder function"
.iX "database management" "dbm library"
The
\*Ldbminit(\|)\*O,
\*Lfetch(\|)\*O,
\*Lstore(\|)\*O,
\*Ldelete(\|)\*O,
\*Lfirstkey(\|)\*O,
\*Lnextkey(\|)\*O,
and
\*Lforder(\|)\*O
functions maintain key/content pairs in a database.
They are obtained with the
\*L\-ldbm\*O
loader option.
The
\*Ldbm\*O
library is
provided only for backwards compatibility,
having been obsoleted by the
\*Lndbm\*O
functions in
\*Llibc\*O.
See the manual page for
\*Lndbm\*O
for more information.
.PP
The
\*Ldbminit(\|)\*O,
\*Lfetch(\|)\*O,
\*Lstore(\|)\*O,
\*Ldelete(\|)\*O,
\*Lfirstkey(\|)\*O,
\*Lnextkey(\|)\*O,
and
\*Lforder(\|)\*O
functions handle very large
databases (up to a billion blocks)
and access a keyed item in one or two file system accesses.
Arbitrary binary data, as well as normal ASCII strings, are allowed.
.PP
The database is stored in two files.
One file is a directory containing a bit map and has \*L.dir\*O as its suffix.
The second file contains all data and has \*L.pag\*O as its suffix.
.PP
Before a database can be accessed, it must be opened by the
\*Ldbminit(\|)\*O
function.
At the time that
\*Ldbminit(\|)\*O
is called, the
\*Vfile\*L.dir\*O
and
\*Vfile\*L.pag\*O
files
must exist.
(An empty database is created by creating zero-length
\*L\&.dir\*O and \*L.pag\*O files.)
.PP
Once open, the data stored under a key is accessed by the
\*Lfetch(\|)\*O
function
and data is placed under a key by the
\*Lstore(\|)\*O
function.
A key (and its associated contents) is deleted by the
\*Ldelete(\|)\*O
function.
A linear pass through all keys in a database may be made
by use of the
\*Lfirstkey(\|)\*O
and
\*Lnextkey(\|)\*O
functions.
The
\*Lfirstkey(\|)\*O
function
returns the first key in the database.  With any key, the
\*Lnextkey(\|)\*O
function
returns the next key in the database.
The following code traverses the database:
.iS
for (key = firstkey(); key.dptr != NULL; key = nextkey(key))
.iE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the
functions that return an
\*Lint\*O
return 0 (zero).  Otherwise, a negative number is returned.
The functions that return a
\*Ldatum\*O
indicate errors with a null (0)
\*Vdptr .\*O
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Functions: \*Lndbm\*O(3)
.iX "dbminit function"
.iX "fetch function"
.iX "store function"
.iX "delete function"
.iX "firstkey function"
.iX "nextkey function"
.iX "forder function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
