.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: delch.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/16 00:30:59 $
.\"
.TH delch 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ldelch\*O, \*Lwdelch\*O, \*Lmvdelch\*O, \*Lmvwdelch\*O \- Remove a character from a curses window
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
The \*Lcurses\*O library (\*Llibcurses.so\*O, \*Llibcurses.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O

\*Lint delch(\|);\*O

\*Lint wdelch(\*Vwin\*L)
    WINDOW *\*Vwin\*L;\*O

\*Lint mvdelch(\*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L)
    int \*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L;

\*Lint mvwdelch(\*Vwin\*L, \*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L,)
    WINDOW *\*Vwin\*L;
    int \*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vwin\*O"
Specifies a \*Lcurses\*O window. If not specified, the
window is the default window \*Lstdscr\*O.
.LI "\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O"
Specifies the line (\*Vy\*O) and column (\*Vx\*O)
coordinates of the target position on the window.
If coordinates are not specified, the target
position is the current position of the logical cursor.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "delch routine"
.iX "mvdelch routine"
.iX "mvwdelch routine"
.iX "wdelch subroutine"
The \*Ldelch\*O routine
deletes the character under the cursor in the default window.
All characters to the right of the deletion on the same line
move to the left one
position, and the last character on the line is filled with a blank.
The cursor position does not change.
.PP
The \*Lwdelch\*O routine
deletes the character under the cursor in the specified window \*Vwin\*O.
All characters to the right of the deletion on the same line
move to the left one
position, and the last character on the line is filled with a blank.
The cursor position does not change.
.PP
The \*Lmvdelch\*O routine
moves the cursor to the specified position (\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O) in the default
window and deletes the character found at this location.
All characters to the right on the same line move to the left one
position, and the last character on the line is filled with a blank.
The cursor position does not change.
.PP
The \*Lmvwdelch\*O routine
moves the cursor to the specified position (\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O)
in the specified window \*Vwin\*O, then deletes the character found
at this location.
All characters to the right of the deletion on the same line move
to the left one position, and the last character on the line
is filled with a blank.
The cursor position does not change.
.PP
All the routines can handle wchar_t characters as well.
.PP
The \*Ldelch\*O, \*Lmvdelch\*O, and \*Lmvwdelch\*O
routines are macros.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Ldelch\*O, \*Lmvdelch\*O, \*Lmvwdelch\*O, and \*Lwdelch\*O
functions return \*LOK\*O on success and \*LERR\*O on error.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
