.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
...\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
...\" | Copyright Unpublished, MIPS Computer Systems, Inc. All Rights |
...\" | Reserved. This software contains proprietary and confidential |
...\" | information of MIPS and its suppliers. Use, disclosure or   |
...\" | reproduction is prohibited without the prior express written  |
...\" | consent of MIPS.                        |
...\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH dlopen 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ldlopen\*O, \*Ldlsym\*O, \*Ldlclose\*O, \*Ldlerror\*O \- interface to dynamic library loader
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "dlopen function"
.iX "dlsym function"
.iX "dlclose function"
.iX "dlerror"
\*L#include <stdio.h>\*O
.nL
\*L#include <dlfcn.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lvoid *dlopen\*O(\*Vfilename, mode\*O)
.nL
\*Lchar \*O*\*Vfilename;\*O
.nL
\*Lint \*Vmode\*O;
.PP
\*Lvoid *dlsym\*O(\*Vhandle, name\*O)
.nL
\*Lvoid \*O*\*Vhandle\*O;
.nL
\*Lchar \*O*\*Vname\*O;
.PP
\*Lvoid dlclose\*O(\*Vhandle\*O)
.nL
\*Lvoid \*O*\*Vhandle\*O;
.PP
\*Lchar *dlerror\*O(\*Vvoid\*O)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
\*Ldlopen\*O
function provides an interface to the dynamic library loader to allow
shared libraries to be loaded and called at runtime.
The
\*Ldlopen\*O
function attempts to load
\*Vfilename\*O,
in the address space of the process, resolving symbols as appropriate.
Any libraries that
\*Vfilename\*O depends upon are also loaded.
.PP
If \*Vmode\*O is \*LRTLD_LAZY\*O,
then the runtime loader does symbol resolution only as needed.
Typically, this means that the first call to a function in the
newly loaded library will cause the resolution of the address of
that function to occur.  If
\*Vmode\*O
is
\*LRTLD_NOW\*O,
then the runtime loader must do all symbol binding during the
\*Ldlopen\*O call.
The \*Ldlopen\*O function returns a handle that is used by
\*Ldlsym\*O
or
\*Ldlclose\*O
call.  If there is an error, a
\*LNULL\*O
pointer is returned.
.PP
If a \*LNULL\*O \*Vfilename\*O
is specified, \*Ldlopen\*O returns a handle for the main executable,
which allows access to dynamic symbols in the running program.
.PP
The
\*Ldlsym\*O
function returns the address of the symbol
\*Vname\*O
found in the shared library corresponding to
\*Vhandle\*O.
If the symbol is not found, a
\*LNULL\*O
pointer is returned.
.PP
The
\*Ldlclose\*O
function deallocates the address space for the library
corresponding to
\*Vhandle\*O.
If any user function continues to call a symbol resolved in the
address space of a library that has been since been deallocated
by
\*Ldlclose\*O,
the results are undefined.
.PP
The
\*Ldlerror\*O
function returns a string describing the last error that occurred from a call to
\*Ldlopen\*O,
\*Ldlclose\*O
or
\*Ldlsym\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lld\*O(1),
\*Lloader\*O(5).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
