.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dn_comp.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 15:07:49 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH dn_comp 3
.SH NAME
\*Ldn_comp\*O \- Compresses a domain name
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
.PP 
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.PP 
\*L#include <netinet/in.h>
\*O\c
.PP 
\*L#include <arpa/nameser.h>
\*O\c
.PP 
\*L#include <resolv.h>
\*O\c
.PP 
\*Lint dn_comp\*O (\*L
.nL
    \*Lu_char *\*Vexpanded_name\*L,
.nL
    \*Lu_char *\*Vcompressed_name\*L,
.nL
    \*Lint \*Vlength\*L,
.nL
    \*Lu_char **\*Vname_ptrs\*L,
.nL
    \*Lu_char **\*Vend_ptr \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vexpanded_name"
\*OPoints
to a domain name.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vcompressed_name" 
\*OPoints
to an array containing the compressed domain name.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vlength" 
\*OSpecifies
the size of the array pointed to by the \*Vcompressed_name\*O parameter.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vname_ptrs" 
\*OSpecifies
a list of pointers to previously compressed names in the current message.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vend_ptr" 
\*OPoints
to the end of the array pointed to by the \*Vcompressed_name\*O parameter.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "dn_comp function"
.iX "domain name" "compressing"
.PP 
The \*Ldn_comp(\|)\*O (domain name compression) function compresses
the \*Odomain name pointed to
by the \*Vexpanded_name\*O parameter and stores it in the area
pointed to by the \*Vcompressed_name\*O parameter.
.PP 
The \*Ldn_comp(\|)\*O function inserts labels into the message
as the name is compressed.  The \*Ldn_comp(\|)\*O function also maintains
a list of pointers to the message labels.
.PP 
\*OIf the value of the \*Vname_ptrs\*O parameter is null, the \*Ldn_comp(\|)
\*Ofunction does not compress any names, but instead
translates a domain name from ASCII to internal format without removing
suffixes (compressing).  Otherwise, the \*Vname_ptrs\*O parameter is
the address
of pointers to previously compressed suffixes.
.PP 
\*OIf the \*Vend_ptr\*O parameter is null, the \*Ldn_comp(\|)
\*Ofunction does not update the list of label pointers.
.PP 
The \*Ldn_comp(\|)\*O function is one of a set of subroutines
that form the \*Oresolver, a set of functions
that resolves domain names.  Global information that is used by the
resolver functions is kept in the \*L_res\*O data structure.
The  \*L/include/resolv.h\*O
file contains
the \*L_res \*Odata structure definition.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the \*Ldn_comp(\|)\*O function returns
the size of the compressed domain name.
\*OOtherwise, a value
of -1 is returned.
.SH FILES
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*L/etc/resolv.conf"
\*ODefines
name server and domain name structures, constants, and values.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lres_init\*O(3),
\*Lres_mkquery\*O(3),
\*Lres_send\*O(3),
\*Ldn_expand\*O(3),
\*Ldn_find\*O(3),
\*Lgetshort\*O(3),
\*Lgetlong\*O(3),
\*Lputshort\*O(3),
\*Lputlong\*O(3),
\*Ldn_skipname\*O(3)
.PP 
Commands:
\*Lnamed\*O(8)
.iX "dn_comp function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
