.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dn_find.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 15:08:24 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH dn_find 3
.SH NAME
\*Ldn_find\*O \- Searches for an expanded domain name
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
.PP 
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.PP 
\*L#include <netinet/in.h>
\*O\c
.PP 
\*L#include <arpa/nameser.h>
\*O\c
.PP 
\*L#include <resolv.h>
.PP 
\*Ldn_find(\|)\*O (\*L
.nL
    \*Lchar *\*Vexp_domain_name\*L,
.nL
    char *\*Vmessage\*L,
.nL
    \*Lchar **\*Vdomain_names\*L,
.nL
    char **\*Vend_ptr \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vexp_domain_name"
\*OPoints
to an expanded domain name.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vmessage" 
\*OPoints to
the address of a domain name message that contains the name sought
by the \*Ldn_find(\|)\*O function.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vdomain_names" 
\*OSpecifies
an array of pointers to previously compressed names in the current
message.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vend_ptr" 
\*OPoints
to the end of an array of pointers.  The array is indicated by the \*Vdomain_names
\*Oparameter.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "dn_find function"
.iX "domain name" "searching for expanded"
.PP 
The \*Ldn_find(\|)\*O (domain name find) function searches for
an expanded domain name from a list
of previously compressed names.
An application
program calls the \*Ldn_find(\|)\*O function
indirectly using the \*Ldn_comp(\|)\*O function.
If an expanded domain name is found, the \*Ldn_comp(\|)\*O
function returns the offset from the
\*Vmessage\*O parameter.
.PP 
The
\*Ldn_find(\|)\*O function is one of a set of subroutines that form
the \*Oresolver,
a set of functions that resolves domain names.  Global information
used by the resolver functions
resides in the \*L_res\*O data structure.  The  \*Linclude/resolv.h\*O
file contains
the \*L_res \*Odata structure definition.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the \*Ldn_find(\|)\*O function returns
the offset from the \*Vmessage\*O parameter.Otherwise, the \*Ldn_find(\|)\*O function returns a value
of -1.
.SH FILES
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*L/etc/resolv.conf"
\*ODefines
name server and domain name structures and constants.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lres_init\*O(3),
\*Lres_mkquery\*O(3),
\*Lres_send\*O(3),
\*Ldn_comp\*O(3),
\*Ldn_expand\*O(3),
\*Lgetshort\*O(3),
\*Lgetlong\*O(3),
\*Lputshort\*O(3),
\*Lputlong\*O(3),
\*Ldn_skipname\*O(3)
.PP 
Commands: \*Lnamed\*O(8)
.iX "dn_find function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
