.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmActivateWidget.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/07 17:45:30 $
.\"
.TH DXmActivateWidget 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmActivateWidget\*O \- Allows the application to simulate push button activation.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmActivateWidget"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmActivateWidget (\*Vwidget\*L)
      Widget  \*Vwidget\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
A pointer to the widget data structure.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmActivateWidget\*O routine allows an application to generate
the same highlighting and callbacks that would occur
if the user clicked on a push button.  Using this routine in your
application enables you to maintain a consistent user interface.
For example, your application could allow a user to choose a function
by either pressing a push button or, if the \*LDXmActivateWidget\*O
routine has been called, by selecting a
menu option that activates the corresponding push button.
.PP
The \*LDXmActivateWidget\*O routine only supports push buttons.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
