.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmCSTextDisableRedisplay.3X,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/25 18:34:06 $
.\"
.\" Based on the OSF1/Motif Rel 1.2 XmTextDisableRedisplay.3X manpage
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
.TH DXmCSTextDisableRedisplay 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmCSTextDisableRedisplay\*O \- A Text function that temporarily prevents visual update of the DXmCSText widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmCSTextDisableRedisplay"
.sS
\*L#include <DXm/DXmCSText.h>

void DXmCSTextDisableRedisplay (\*Vwidget\*L)
        Widget  \*Vwidget\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\*LDXmCSTextDisableRedisplay\*O prevents redisplay of the specified
DXmCSText widget even though its visual attributes have been
modified.  The visual appearance of the widget remains
unchanged until \*LDXmCSTextEnableRedisplay\*O is called.
This allows an application to make multiple changes to
the widget without causing intermediate visual updates.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
Specifies the DXmCSText widget ID.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LDXmCSTextEnableRedisplay(3X)\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
