.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmCSTextPosToXY.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/03 21:48:27 $
.\"
.TH DXmCSTextPosToXY 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmCSTextPosToXY\*O \- Retrieves (returns) the x and y position of a specified character in the text.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmCSTextPosToXY"
.sS
\*LBoolean DXmCSTextPosToXY(\*Vwidget\*L, \*Vposition\*L, \*Vx\*L, \*Vy\*L)
         Widget             \*Vwidget\*L;
         DXmCSTextPosition  \*Vposition\*L;
         Position           *\*Vx\*L;
         Position           *\*Vy\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the compound string text widget.
.LI "\*Vposition\*O"
Specifies the position in the text of the character for which the
\*Vx\*O and \*Vy\*O coordinates will be returned.
.LI "\*Vx\*O"
A pointer to the \*Vx\*O coordinate relative to the upper left
corner of the widget. (Valid only when the routine returns True.)
.LI "\*Vy\*O"
A pointer to the \*Vy\*O coordinate relative to the upper left
corner of the widget. (Valid only when the routine returns True.)
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmCSTextPosToXY\*O routine converts the logical position of a
specified character in the text to the corresponding \*Vx\*O and \*Vy\*O
coordinates.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
A Boolean function that, when True, returns
the \*Vx\*O and \*Vy\*O position of the character
in text. When False, no \*Vx\*O and \*Vy\*O position is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LDXmCSTextXYToPos\*O(3X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
