.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmCSTextSetMaxLength.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/07 22:03:37 $
.\"
.TH DXmCSTextSetMaxLength 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmCSTextSetMaxLength\*O \- Sets the maximum allowable length of the text in the compound string text widget.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmCSTextSetMaxLength"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmCSTextSetMaxLength(\*Vwidget\*L, \*Vmax_length\*L)
      Widget  \*Vwidget\*L;
      int     \*Vmax_length\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the compound string text widget.
.LI "\*Vmax_length\*O"
An integer that represents the maximum length, in characters, of the
text in the compound string text widget.  This parameter sets the
\*VXmNmaxLength\*O resource used by the \*LDXmCreateCSText\*O routine.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmCSTextSetMaxLength\*O routine sets the maximum allowable length
of the text in the compound string text widget.  It prohibits the
user from entering text longer than this limit.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LDXmCreateCSText\*O(3X),
\*LDXmCSTextGetMaxLength\*O(3X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
