.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmCSTextXYToPos.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/03 21:48:32 $
.\"
.TH DXmCSTextXYToPos 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmCSTextXYToPos\*O \- Retrieves (returns) the position in the text of the character nearest to a specified x and y position.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmCSTextXYToPos"
.sS
\*LDXmCSTextPosition DXmCSTextXYToPos(\*Vwidget\*L, \*Vx\*L, \*Vy\*L)
                   Widget    \*Vwidget\*L;
                   Position  \*Vx\*L;
                   Position  \*Vy\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the compound string text widget.
.LI "\*Vx\*O"
The \*Vx\*O coordinate relative to the upper left corner of the widget.
.LI "\*Vy\*O"
The \*Vy\*O coordinate relative to the upper left corner of the widget.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmCSTextXYToPos\*O routine returns an integer that
identifies the position in the text of the character that
is nearest to a specified \*Vx\*O and \*Vy\*O position.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
An integer that identifies the position of the character in the text.
This integer represents the number of characters from the beginning of
the text buffer, with 0 indicating the position of the first character.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LDXmCSTextPosToXY\*O(3X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
