.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmCreateColorMix.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/07 22:20:06 $
.\"
.TH DXmCreateColorMix 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmCreateColorMix\*O \- Creates a color mixing widget, without a pop-up dialog box.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmCreateColorMix"
.sS
\*LWidget DXmCreateColorMix(\*Vparent\*L, \*Vname\*L, \*Varglist\*L, \*Vargcount\*L)
        Widget    \*Vparent\*L;
        String    \*Vname\*L;
        ArgList   \*Varglist\*L;
        Cardinal  \*Vargcount\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vparent\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the parent widget.
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
The name of the created widget.
.LI "\*Varglist\*O"
The application argument list.
.LI "\*Vargcount\*O"
The number of arguments in the application argument list.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmCreateColorMix\*O routine uses the same arguments and resources
as the \*LDXmCreateColorMixDialog\*O routine to create a color mixing
widget, but does not include a pop-up dialog box.  Note, however, that
if color resources are limited, your application should use the pop-up
color mixing widget instead.
.SS Inherited Resources
\*LDXmCreateColorMix\*O inherits behaviour and resources
from the following superclasses:
.PP
.oS
     Core Resource Set
     Composite Resource Set
     Constraint Resource Set
     XmManager Resource Set
     XmBulletinBoard Resource Set
     DXmColorMix Resource Set
.oE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The identifier (widget ID) of the created color mixing widget.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LDXmCreateColorMixDialog\*O(3X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
