.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmColorMixSetNewColor.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/07 22:19:43 $
.\"
.TH DXmColorMixSetNewColor 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmColorMixSetNewColor\*O \- Sets the new color red, green, and blue values in the color mixing widget.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmColorMixSetNewColor"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmColorMixSetNewColor(\*Vcmw\*L, \*Vred\*L, \*Vgreen\*L, \*Vblue\*L)
      DXmColorMixWidget  \*Vcmw\*L;
      unsigned short     \*Vred\*L;
      unsigned short     \*Vgreen\*L;
      unsigned short     \*Vblue\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vcmw\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the color mixing widget.
.LI "\*Vred\*O"
The new color red value. The value is expressed as an X color value
(0 to 65535).
.LI "\*Vgreen\*O"
The new color green value. The value is expressed as an X color value
(0 to 65535).
.LI "\*Vblue\*O"
The new color blue value. The value is expressed as an X color value
(0 to 65535).
.LE
.PP
A complete list of all the X color values available to you is located
on your system.  To find it, type the following command:
.PP
.iS
%find / \-name '*rgb*' \-print
.iE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmColorMixSetNewColor\*O routine allows the application or a
user-supplied color mixer subwidget to pass the current color value to
the color mixing widget.  Note that your application will perform this
operation faster if you call this routine instead of the Intrinsic routine
\*LXtSetValues\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LDXmColorMixGetNewColor\*O(3X),
\*LDXmCreateColorMix\*O(3X),
\*LDXmCreateColorMixDialog\*O(3X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
