.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmCreateScrolledCSText.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/07 22:21:19 $
.\"
.TH DXmCreateScrolledCSText 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmCreateScrolledCSText\*O \- Creates a compound string text widget with scroll bars.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmCreateScrolledCSText"
.sS
\*LWidget DXmCreateScrolledCSText(\*Vparent\*L, \*Vname\*L, \*Vargs\*L, \*Vnum_args\*L)
        Widget    \*Vparent\*L;
        char      *\*Vname\*L;
        Args      *\*Vargs\*L;
        Cardinal  \*Vnum_args\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vparent\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the parent widget.
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
The name of the created widget.
.LI "\*Vargs\*O"
The application override argument list.
.LI "\*Vnum_args\*O"
The number of arguments in the application override argument list.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmCreateScrolledCSText\*O routine creates a compound string
text widget with scroll bars.  The routine uses the same arguments and
resources as the \*LDXmCreateCSText\*O routine to create a compound string
text widget but uses the following resources to create horizontal and
vertical scroll bars for the widget as well:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Resource@Description
.sp
_
.sp
XmNscrollHorizontal@T{
Controls whether a scroll bar that allows the user to scroll through
text horizontally is added to the compound string text window.
T}
.sp
XmNscrollTopSide@T{
Controls whether the horizontal scroll bar is positioned at the top of
the compound string text window.
T}
.sp
XmNscrollVertical@T{
Controls whether a scroll bar that allows the user to scroll through
text vertically is added to the compound string text window.
T}
.sp
XmNscrollLeftSide@T{
Controls whether the vertical scroll bar is placed on the left side of
the compound string text window.
T}
.sp
_
.TE
.SS Inherited Resources
The \*LDXmCreateScrolledCSText\*O routine inherits behaviour and resources
from the following superclasses:
.PP
.oS
Core Resource Set
XmPrimitive Resource Set
DXmScrolledCSText Resource Set
.oE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The identifier (widget ID) of the created compound string text widget.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LDXmCreateCSText\*O(3X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
