.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmCSTextGetSelectionInfo.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/07 22:01:10 $
.\"
.TH DXmCSTextGetSelectionInfo 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmCSTextGetSelectionInfo\*O \- Retrieves (returns) the left and right positions of the currently selected text.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmCSTextGetSelectionInfo"
.sS
\*LBoolean DXmCSTextGetSelectionInfo (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Vleft\*L, \*Vright\*L)
         Widget             \*Vwidget\*L;
         DXmCSTextPosition  *\*Vleft\*L;
         DXmCSTextPosition  *\*Vright\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the compound string text widget.
.LI "\*Vleft\*O"
The left logical position corresponding to the selected text.
.LI "\*Vright\*O"
The right logical position corresponding to the selected text.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmCSTextGetSelectionInfo\*O routine, when True, returns the left
and right logical positions corresponding to the currently selected
(highlighted) text.  If no text is selected, this routine returns False.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
A Boolean value that, when False, indicates that
there is no currently selected text; otherwise, the value is True.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
