.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmCSTextReplace.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/07 22:02:52 $
.\"
.TH DXmCSTextReplace 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmCSTextReplace\*O \- Replaces a specified segment of text in a compound string text widget.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmCSTextReplace"
.sS
\*LDXmCSTextStatus DXmCSTextReplace(\*Vwidget\*L, \*Vfrom_pos\*L, \*Vto_pos\*L, \*Vvalue\*L)
                 Widget    \*Vwidget\*L;
                 int       \*Vfrom_pos\*L;
                 int       \*Vto_pos\*L;
                 XmString  \*Vvalue\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the compound string text widget.
.LI "\*Vfrom_pos\*O"
An integer that represents the first character position of the
text being replaced.
.LI "\*Vto_pos\*O"
An integer that represents the last character position of the
text being replaced.
.LI "\*Vvalue\*O"
Replacement text for part of the current text in the compound string text
widget, or additional text to be inserted into the compound string text widget.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmCSTextReplace\*O routine replaces part of the text in the
compound string text widget.  Within the widget, positions are numbered
starting at 0 and increasing sequentially.  For example, to replace the
second and third characters in the text, \*Vfrom_pos\*O should be 1
and \*Vto_pos\*O should be 3.  To insert text after the fourth character,
\*Vfrom_pos\*O and \*Vto_pos\*O should both be 4.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
A value that represents the status (success or failure) of the
replace operation, as follows:
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Value@Description
.sp
_
.sp
DXmCSTextStatusEditDone@Text replaced successfully.
.sp
DXmCSTextStatusEditError@Text not replaced (failure).
.sp
_
.TE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LDXmCreateCSText\*O(3X),
\*LDXmCSTextSetString\*O(3X),
\*LDXmCSTextGetString\*O(3X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
