.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmCSTextInsert.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/07 22:01:56 $
.\"
.TH DXmCSTextInsert 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmCSTextInsert\*O \- Inserts new text into the compound string text widget.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmCSTextInsert"
.sS
\*LDXmCSTextStatus DXmCSTextInsert(\*Vwidget\*L, \*Vpos\*L, \*Vvalue\*L)
                 Widget             \*Vwidget\*L:
                 DXmCSTextPosition  \*Vpos\*L;
                 XmString           \*Vvalue\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the compound string text widget.
.LI "\*Vpos\*O"
The logical position at which to insert the new text.
.LI "\*Vvalue\*O"
The compound string representation of the text.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmCSTextInsert\*O routine inserts new text into the compound
string text widget at the specified logical position, returning
the success or failure of that operation.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
A value that represents the status (success or failure) of the
insertion operation, as follows:
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Value@Description
.sp
_
DXmCSTextStatusEditDone@Text was inserted successfully.
.sp
DXmCSTextStatusEditError@Text was not inserted (failure).
.sp
_
.TE
.EQ
delim off
.EN
