.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmCSTextSetHighlight.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/07 22:03:19 $
.\"
.TH DXmCSTextSetHighlight 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmCSTextSetHighlight\*O \- Changes the highlighting of the compound string text located between two specified logical positions.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmCSTextSetHighlight"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmCSTextSetHighlight(\*Vwidget\*L, \*Vleft\*L, \*Vright\*L, \*Vmode\*L)
      Widget             \*Vwidget\*L;
      DXmCSTextPosition  \*Vleft\*L;
      DXmCSTextPosition  \*Vright\*L;
      XmHighlightMode    \*Vmode\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the compound string text widget.
.LI "\*Vleft\*O"
The left boundary of the text to be highlighted.
.LI "\*Vright\*O"
The right boundary of the text to be highlighted.
.LI "\*Vmode\*O"
One of the following types of highlighting:
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Value@Description
.sp
_
XmHIGHLIGHT_NORMAL@Removes highlighting.
.sp
XmHIGHLIGHT_SELECTED@Uses reverse video.
.sp
XmHIGHLIGHT_SECONDARY_SELECTED@Uses underlining.
.sp
_
.TE
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmCSTextSetHighlight\*O routine changes the highlighting of the
compound string text located between two specified positions, by removing the
highlighting or by implementing underlining or reverse video.
This visual change in the display does not affect (set) the selections.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
