.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmCSTextGetTopPosition.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/07 22:01:28 $
.\"
.TH DXmCSTextGetTopPosition 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmCSTextGetTopPosition\*O \- Retrieves (returns) the logical position of the first character in the displayed text.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmCSTextGetTopPosition"
.sS
\*LDXmCSTextPosition DXmCSTextGetTopPosition(\*Vwidget\*L)
                   Widget  \*Vwidget\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the compound string text widget.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmCSTextGetTopPosition\*O routine returns the logical position
of the first character in the displayed text.  If the direction is
left-to-right, the first character is at the top-left of the display.
If the direction is right-to-left the first character is at the
top-right of the display.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
An integer that represents the logical position of the first
character in the text buffer.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
