.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmCSTextSetSelection.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/27 21:25:58 $
.\"
.TH DXmCSTextSetSelection 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmCSTextSetSelection\*O \- Designates the specified text as the current primary selection by highlighting it in the compound string text widget.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmCSTextSetSelection"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmCSTextSetSelection(\*Vwidget\*L, \*Vfirst\*L, \*Vlast\*L, \*Vtime\*L)
      Widget  \*Vwidget\*L;
      DXmCXTextPosition     \*Vfirst\*L;
      DXmCXTextPosition     \*Vlast\*L;
      Time    \*Vtime\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the compound string text widget.
.LI "\*Vfirst\*O"
A value that represents the position of the first character in the 
text being selected.
.LI "\*Vlast\*O"
A value that represents the position of the last character in the 
text being selected.
.LI "\*Vtime\*O"
Specifies the time of the event that generated the call to the
\*LDXmCSTextSetSelection\*O routine.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmCSTextSetSelection\*O routine designates the specified text
as the current primary selection by highlighting it in the compound
string text widget.  Within the text window, \*Vfirst\*O marks the position
of the first character in the text and \*Vlast\*O marks the last character.
The field characters start at 0 and increase sequentially.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LDXmCreateCSText\*O(3X),
\*LDXmCSTextClearSelection\*O(3X),
\*LDXmCSTextGetSelection\*O(3X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
