.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmCSTextEnableRedisplay.3X,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/25 18:34:10 $
.\"
.\"  Based on the OSF1/Motif Rel 1.2 XmTextEnableRedisplay.3X manpage
...\" **
...\" **
...\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" **      All Rights Reserved.
...\" **
.TH DXmCSTextEnableRedisplay 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmCSTextEnableRedisplay\*O \- A Text function that forces the visual update of DXmCSText widget.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmCSTextEnableRedisplay"
.sS
\*L#include <DXm/DXmCSText.h>

void DXmCSTextEnableRedisplay (\*Vwidget\*L)
        Widget  \*Vwidget\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\*LDXmCSTextEnableRedisplay\*O is used in conjunction with
\*LDXmCSTextDisableRedisplay\*O, which suppresses visual update
of DXmCSText.  When \*LDXmCSTextEnableRedisplay\*O is
called, it determines if any visual attributes have been set
or modified for the specified widget since \*LDXmCSTextDisableRedisplay\*O
was called.  If so, it forces the widget to update its visual display for
all of the intervening changes.  Any subsequent changes that affect
visual appearance cause the widget to update its visual display.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
Specifies the DXmCSText widget ID.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LDXmCSTextDisableRedisplay(3X)\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
