.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmCreatePrintBox.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/07 22:20:54 $
.\"
.TH DXmCreatePrintBox 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmCreatePrintBox\*O \- Creates the print widget without a dialog box.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmCreatePrintBox"
.sS
\*LWidget DXmCreatePrintBox(\*Vparent\*L, \*Vname\*L, \*Varglist\*L, \*Vargcount\*L)
        Widget   \*Vparent\*L;
        char     *\*Vname\*L;
        Arglist  \*Varglist\*L;
        int      \*Vargcount\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the parent widget.
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
The name of the created widget.
.LI "\*Varglist\*O"
The application argument list.
.LI "\*Vargcount\*O"
An integer that represents the number of arguments in the
application argument list.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmCreatePrintBox\*O routine uses the same arguments and resources
as the \*LDXmCreatePrintDialog\*O routine to create a print widget, but
does not include a dialog box.  See the \*LDXmCreatePrintDialog\*O(3X)
for a complete description.
.SS Inherited Resources
\*LDXmCreatePrintBox\*O inherits behaviour and resources from the
following superclasses:
.PP
.oS
Core Resource Set
Composite Resource Set
Constraint Resource Set
XmManager Resource Set
XmBulletinBoard Resource Set
DXmPrintBox Resource Set
.oE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The identifier (widget ID) of the created print widget.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
