.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmCreatePrintDialog.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/07 22:21:08 $
.\"
.TH DXmCreatePrintDialog 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmCreatePrintDialog\*O \- Creates the print widget with a dialog box.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmCreatePrintDialog"
.sS
\*LWidget DXmCreatePrintDialog (\*Vparent\*L, \*Vname\*L, \*Varglist\*L, \*Vargcount\*L)
        Widget   \*Vparent\*L;
        char     *\*Vname\*L;
        Arglist  \*Varglist\*L;
        int      \*Vargcount\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the parent widget.
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
The name of the created widget.
.LI "\*Varglist\*O"
The application argument list.
.LI "\*Vargcount\*O"
An integer that represents the number of
arguments in the application argument list.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmCreatePrintDialog\*O routine creates the print widget, which
is a modeless widget that provides applications with a fast, convenient
method of printing one or more files in multiple formats.
.SS Resource Information
You can set the following widget-specific resources in the \*Varglist\*O:
.PP
.oS
XmString             DXmNdefaultPrinter;
Boolean              DXmNdeleteFile;
int                  DXmNfileNameCount;
XmStringTable        DXmNfileNameList;
Boolean              DXmNheader;
int                  DXmNinputTray;
XmString             DXmNjobName;
XmString             DXmNlayupDefinition;
int                  DXmNmessageLog;
Boolean              DXmNnotify;
int                  DXmNnumberCopies;
int                  DXmNnumberUp;
XmString             DXmNoptionsDialogTitle;
int                  DXmNorientation;
int                  DXmNoutputTray;
XmString             DXmNpageRangeFrom;
XmString             DXmNpageRangeTo;
int                  DXmNpageSize;
Boolean              DXmNpassAll;
XmString             DXmNprintAfter;
int                  DXmNprinterCount;
XmString             DXmNprinterChoice;
XmStringTable        DXmNprinterList;
XmString             DXmNprintFormatChoice;
int                  DXmNprintFormatCount;
XmStringTable        DXmNprintFormatList;
int                  DXmNsheetCount;
int                  DXmNsheetSize;
int                  DXmNsides;
XmString             DXmNstartSheetComment;
unsigned long        DXmNsuppressOptionsMask;
Boolean              DXmNunmanageOnCancel;
Boolean              DXmNunmanageOnOk;
XtCallbackList       XmNcancelCallback;
XtCallbackList       XmNokCallback;
.oE
.SS Resources
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LDXmNautoPagination\*O"
A Boolean value that, when True, indicates that autopagination (formatting
the output into pages based on length or line count) is turned on.
When False, autopagination is turned off.  By default, the value of this
resource changes when the user switches print formats.  The default settings
for the print formats are as follows:
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Print Format@Default
.sp
_
.sp
Default@T{
False
T}
.sp
Text (ANSI Level 0)@True
.sp
Line Printer (ANSI Level 1)@True
.sp
Terminal@True
.sp
ANSI2 (ANSI Level 2)@False
.sp
ANSI (ANSI Level 3)@False
.sp
PostScript@False
.sp
ReGIS@False
.sp
TEK (Tektronix)@False
.sp
DDIF@False
.sp
_
.TE
.IP
Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNdefaultPrinter\*O"
An XmString that allows you to specify a default printer.  If you do not
specify a default printer, the default choice is either the first printer
in the list or the printer defined  by the environment variable PRINTER.
Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNdeleteFile\*O"
A Boolean value that controls whether the file is deleted after it is printed.
When True, the file is deleted.  When False, the file is not deleted.
The default is False.  The user must have delete access to the file to
delete it.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNdoubleSpacing\*O"
A Boolean value that controls the state of double-spacing.  When True,
double-spacing is turned on.  When False, double-spacing is turned off.
The default is False.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNfileBurstSheet\*O"
An integer value that allows you to control whether there will be a File
Burst Sheet for your print job and how frequently it appears.  The
possible values are as follows:
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Value@Description
.sp
_
.sp
DXmFILE_SHEET_DEFAULT@T{
Indicates that you want the default for the queue on which the job is
being printed.
T}
.sp
DXmFILE_SHEET_NONE@T{
Indicates that you do not want a Burst Page.
T}
.sp
DXmFILE_SHEET_ONE@T{
Indicates that you want only a single Burst Page that will precede the
first file printed.
T}
.sp
DXmFILE_SHEET_ALL@T{
Indicates that you want the Burst Page to be printed before every file
in the print job.
T}
.sp
_
.TE
.IP
The default is DXmFILE_SHEET_DEFAULT, or 0.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNfileEndSheet\*O"
An integer value that allows you to control whether there will be a
File End Sheet for your print job and how frequently it is printed.
The possible values are as follows:
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Value@Description
.sp
_
.sp
DXmFILE_SHEET_DEFAULT@T{
Indicates that you want the default for the queue on which the job
is being printed.
T}
.sp
DXmFILE_SHEET_NONE@T{
Indicates that you do not want a File End Sheet.
T}
.sp
DXmFILE_SHEET_ONE@T{
Indicates that you want only a single File End Sheet to follow the
last file printed.
T}
.sp
DXmFILE_SHEET_ALL@T{
Indicates that you want the File End Sheet to be printed after every
file in the print job.
T}
.sp
_
.TE
.IP
The default is DXmFILE_SHEET_DEFAULT, or 0.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNfileNameCount\*O"
The number of files specified in the \*LDXmNfileNameList\*O resource,
expressed as an integer value.  The default is 0.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNfileNameList\*O"
An XmStringTable that enables the print widget to use the files specified
by this resource to make assumptions about the print format of the files
to be printed.  If you set the \*LDXmNfileNameList\*O resource, you must
also set the value of the \*LDXmNfileNameCount\*O resource.  The default
is Null.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNfileStartSheet\*O"
An integer value that allows you to control whether there will be a
File Start Sheet for your print job and how frequently it is printed.
The possible values are as follows:
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Value@Description
.sp
_
.sp
DXmFILE_SHEET_DEFAULT@T{
Indicates that you want the default for the queue on which the job is
being printed.
T}
.sp
DXmFILE_SHEET_NONE@T{
Indicates that you do not want a File Start Sheet.
T}
.sp
DXmFILE_SHEET_ONE@T{
Indicates that you want only a single File Start Sheet that will precede
the first file.
T}
.sp
DXmFILE_SHEET_ALL@T{
Indicates that you want the File Start Sheet to be printed before every
file in the print job.
T}
.sp
_
.TE
.IP
The default is DXmFILE_SHEET_DEFAULT, or 0.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNheader\*O"
A Boolean value that controls whether to print the header.  When True,
the header is printed.  When False, the header is not printed.  The default
is False.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNholdJob\*O"
A Boolean value that controls whether the print job will finish without
further manual intervention.  If this resource is True, the print job is
held in the print queue servicing the printer until it is manually released
by queue management operations.  The default is False.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNinputTray\*O"
An integer value that allows you to specify the input tray holding the
medium to be used for the print job.  The possible values for
\*LDXmNinputTray\*O are as follows:
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Value@Description
.sp
_
.sp
DXmINPUT_TRAY_DEFAULT@T{
The default input tray is that which is specified for the queue.
T}
.sp
DXmINPUT_TRAY_TOP@T{
The top input tray is the source of the medium on which to print.
T}
.sp
DXmINPUT_TRAY_MIDDLE@T{
source of the medium on which to print.
T}
.sp
DXmINPUT_TRAY_BOTTOM@T{
source of the medium on which to print.
T}
.sp
_
.TE
.IP
The default is DXmINPUT_TRAY_DEFAULT, or 0.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNjobName\*O"
A pointer to an XmString that identifies the print job name.  If no
job name is specified, the job name is derived from the name of the
first file being printed.  The default is Null.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNlayupDefinition\*O"
An XmString that allows you  to enter a module name contained in the
layup library.  This module, in conjunction with the DXmNnumberUp resource,
controls how the image is deposited on the medium.  The default is Null.
Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNmessageLog\*O"
An integer value that allows you to specify what is to be done with error
messages that are created in the course of printing.  The possible values
for \*LDXmNmessageLog\*O are as follows:
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Value@Description
.sp
_
.sp
DXmMESSAGE_LOG_DEFAULT@T{
Accept whatever is specified for the print queue.
T}
.sp
DXmMESSAGE_LOG_IGNORE@T{
Nothing is done with the error messages.
T}
.sp
DXmMESSAGE_LOG_PRINT@T{
The error messages are written to the File End Sheet.
T}
.sp
DXmMESSAGE_LOG_KEEP@T{
The error messages are retained in a file.
T}
.sp
DXmMESSAGE_LOG_KEEP_AND_PRINT@T{
The error messages are written to the File End Sheet (or additional
job error sheet) and are retained in a log file.
T}
.sp
_
.TE
.IP
The default is DXmMESSAGE_LOG_DEFAULT, or 0.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNnotify\*O"
A Boolean value that determines whether the user is notified when the
file is printed.  When True, the user is notified.  When False, the user
is not notified.  The default is True.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNnumberCopies\*O"
An integer value that determines the number of copies of the file to print.
The allowable range is from 1 to 255 copies.  The default is 0 (which
means to use the system default).  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNnumberUp\*O"
An integer value in the range of 0--100 that specifies how many logical
images are to be printed on one side of a page.  The default is 0 (one
logical image, without any adjustments to how the image is deposited on
the medium).  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNoperatorMessage\*O"
An XmString that allows you to enter a text field to be displayed on the
operator's console when the job first starts printing.
\*LDXmNoperatorMessage\*O can be used to pass messages to the operator
concerning the handling of the printed output.  The default is Null.
Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNoptionsDialogTitle\*O"
Specifies the title for the secondary dialog box that lists additional
print options.  The default is "Print: Options".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNorientation\*O"
An integer value that determines the paper orientation (on printers that
support this feature).  The possible values for orientation are as follows:
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Value@Description
.sp
_
.sp
DXmORIENTATION_DEFAULT@T{
Allows you to accept the orientation that is defined for the print queue
you have selected.
T}
.sp
DXmORIENTATION_PORTRAIT@T{
Allows you to force a portrait orientation to the resulting printout.
T}
.sp
DXmORIENTATION_LANDSCAPE@T{
Allows you to force a landscape orientation to the resulting printout.
T}
.sp
_
.TE
.IP
The default is DXmORIENTATION_DEFAULT, or 0.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNoutputTray\*O"
An integer value that allows you to specify the output tray in which
the medium is to be placed after the sheet is printed.  The possible
values for DXmNoutputTray are as follows:
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Value@Description
.sp
_
.sp
DXmOUTPUT_TRAY_DEFAULT@T{
The default output tray is that which is specified for the queue.
T}
.sp
DXmOUTPUT_TRAY_TOP@T{
Allows you to select the top output tray to receive the printed medium.
T}
.sp
DXmOUTPUT_TRAY_SIDE@T{
Allows you to select the side output tray to receive the printed medium.
T}
.sp
DXmOUTPUT_TRAY_FACE_UP@T{
Allows you to select the faceup output tray to receive the printed medium.
T}
.sp
DXmOUTPUT_TRAY_UPPER@T{
Allows you to select the upper output tray to receive the printed medium.
T}
.sp
DXmOUTPUT_TRAY_LOWER@T{
Allows you to select the lower output tray to receive the printed medium.
T}
.sp
_
.TE
.IP
The default is DXmOUTPUT_TRAY_DEFAULT, or 0.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNpageRangeFrom\*O"
A pointer to an XmString that identifies the starting page of the file
to print.  The \*LDXmNpageRangeFrom\*O and \*LDXmNpageRangeTo\*O resources
allow you to enter a range of pages to be printed if you chose not to print
a file in its entirety.  When using this resource, note the following:
.ML
.LI
If you want to start printing at the first page of the file, you may leave
the \*LDXmNpageRangeFrom\*O resource blank (no value specified).
.LI
If you specify a value for the DXmNpageRangeTo resource, the
\*LDXmNpageRangeFrom\*O resource must be less than or equal to that value.
.LE
.IP
The default is Null.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LXmNpageRangeTo\*O"
A pointer to an XmString that identifies the last page of the file to print.
The \*LDXmNpageRangeFrom\*O and \*LDXmNpageRangeTo\*O resources allow you
to enter a range of pages to be printed if you chose not to print a file
in its entirety.
.IP
The \*LDXmNpageRangeTo\*O resource may be left blank to print to the last
page of the file.  The default is Null.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNpageSize\*O"
An integer value that determines the logical (or virtual) size of the
print image.  The possible values for page size are as follows:
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB
l l l .
_
.sp
Value@Size in Inches@Size in MM
.sp
_
.sp
DXmSIZE_DEFAULT@Queue Default@T{
Queue Default
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_LETTER@8.5 x 11@T{
216 x 279
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_LEDGER@11 x 17@T{
279 x 432
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_LEGAL@8.5 x 14@T{
216 x 356
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_EXECUTIVE@7.5 x QQQ10@T{
191 x 254
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_A5@5.8 x 8.3@T{
148 x 210
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_A4@8.3 x 11.7@T{
210 x 297
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_A3@11.7 x 16.5@T{
297 x 420
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_B5@ 7.2 x QQQ10.1@T{
176 x 250
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_B4@10.1 x 14.3@T{
250 x 353
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_C4_ENVELOPE@9 x 12.8@T{
229 x 324
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_C5_ENVELOPE@6.4 x 9@T{
162 x 229
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_C56_ENVELOPE@4.3 x 8.7@T{
110 x 220
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_10X13_ENVELOPE@10 x 13@T{
254 x 330.2
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_9X12_ENVELOPE@9 x 12@T{
228.6 x 304.8
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_BUSINESS_ENVELOPE@4.125 x 9.5@T{
104.8 x 241.3
T}
.sp
_
.TE
.IP
The default is DXmSIZE_DEFAULT.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNpassAll\*O"
A Boolean value that, when True, allows all control characters to be
passed to the printer.  By default, the value of this resource changes
when the user switches print formats.  The default settings for the print
formats are as follows:
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Print Format@Default
.sp
_
.sp
Default@False
.sp
Text (ANSI Level 0)@False
.sp
Line Printer (ANSI Level 1)@False
.sp
Terminal@False
.sp
ANSI2 (ANSI Level 2)@True
.sp
ANSI (ANSI Level 3)@True
.sp
PostScript@False
.sp
ReGIS@False
.sp
TEK (Tektronix)@True
.sp
DDIF@True
.sp
_
.TE
.IP
Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNprintAfter\*O"
An XmString that allows you to enter a time and date when this print job
first becomes eligible to be scheduled for printing.  The XmString for
the time and date must be the standard format for your operating system.
Check the \*Lat\*O(1) reference page to obtain the proper format.
.P
If this resource is not specified, the job becomes eligible for immediate
print scheduling.  The job also becomes eligible for immediate print
scheduling if the user specifies this resource but specifies either nothing
or "now" as the XmString.  The default is "now".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNprinterChoice\*O"
An XmString that specifies the printer to use for the current print format.
Applications usually use this resource to store information about a
user's printer preference.
.IP
If you set this resource, the XmString must exactly match one of the print
widget's supported printers, including the character set.  The recommended
approach is to not specify this resource when the print widget is first
managed.  Then, once the user has selected a print format, call the
\*LXtGetValues\*O routine to obtain the value and then \*LXtSetArg\*O to set
\*LDXmNprinterChoice\*O.
.IP
The print widget sets this resource as follows:
.ML
.LI
If the user selects a new print format, the printer queue box might be
re-populated (assuming the user has set up the print queue logicals).
.LI
If the user has chosen this print format before and has already chosen
a printer for this format, the print widget identifies this printer as
the \*LDXmNprinterChoice\*O resource.  The printer is automatically selected,
regardless of the previous queue choice.
.LI
If the user has not previously selected this print format,  the print
widget determines whether there is a printer that matches the one defined by
\*LDXmNdefaultPrinter\*O.  If that printer is available, the print widget
selects it; otherwise the print widget selects the first printer in the list.
The default is Null.  Access is CSG.
.LE
.LI "\*LDXmNprinterCount\*O"
The number of printers specified in the \*LDXmNprinterList\*O resource,
expressed as an integer.  If your application requires the value of this
resource, call the \*LXtGetValues\*O routine to obtain the value.
.IP
You cannot set a value for this resource.  The default is 0.  Access is G.
.LI "\*LDXmNprinterFormChoice\*O"
An XmString that specifies the printer form to use as the default.  Use
this resource when you want your application to record a user's printer
preference.
.IP
Note that if you set this resource, the XmString must exactly match one
of the operating system's supported printer forms.  (Use the
\*LDXmCvtOSToCS\*O routine to convert the string to an XmString.)
Digital recommends that you do not specify this resource when the print
widget is first managed.  Instead, after the user has selected a printer
form,  call the Intrinsic routines \*LXtGetValues\*O to obtain the value
and \*LXtSetArg\*O to set \*LDXmNprinterFormChoice\*O.  The default is Null.
Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNprinterFormList\*O"
An XmStringTable list of the available printer forms.  If your application
requires the value of this resource, call the \*LXtGetValues\*O routine to
obtain the value.
.IP
You cannot set a value for this resource.  The default is Null.  Access is G.
.LI "\*LDXmNprinterFormCount\*O"
The number of printer forms specified in the \*LDXmNprinterFormList\*O
resource, expressed as an integer value.  If your application requires
the value of this resource, call the XtGetValues routine to obtain the value.
.IP
You cannot set a value for this resource. The default is 0.  Access is G.
.LI "\*LDXmNprinterList\*O"
An \*LXmStringTable\*O that determines the names to appear in the Printer
list box.  If your application requires the value of this resource, call
the \*LXtGetValues\*O routine to obtain the value.
.IP
You cannot set a value for this resource. The default is Null.  Access is G.
.LI "\*LDXmNprintFormatChoice\*O"
An XmString that specifies the print format to use as the default.  Use
this resource when you want your application to record a user's print
format preference.
.IP
Note that if you set this resource, the XmString must exactly match one
of the print widget's supported print formats, including the character set.
Digital recommends that you do not specify this resource when the print
widget is first managed.  Instead, after the user has selected a print
format,  call the Intrinsic routines \*LXtGetValues\*O to obtain the value
and \*LXtSetArg\*O to set \*LDXmNprintFormatChoice\*O.  The default is Null.
Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNprintFormatCount\*O"
The number of print formats specified in the \*LDXmNprintFormatList\*O
resource, expressed as an integer value.  The default is 0.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNprintFormatList\*O"
An \*LXmStringTable\*O that determines the print widget's print format
list, which is the list of print formats that are understood by the print
widget.  If you set this resource, each XmString in the table must exactly
match one of the print widget's supported print formats.
.IP
The print widget supports the following data formats:
.ML
.LI
Default (no data type specification is output)
.LI
Text (ANSI Level 0)
.LI
Line Printer (ANSI Level 1)
.LI
Terminal
.LI
ANSI2 (ANSI Level 2)
.LI
ANSI (ANSI Level 3)
.LI
PostScript
.LI
ReGIS
.LI
Tektronix
.LI
DDIF
.LE
.IP
The default is Null.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNpriority\*O"
An integer value that determines the priority of the job (0--255) in
the print queue.  If no priority is specified (a value of 0), the default
priority for that queue is used.  The default is 0.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNsetup\*O"
An XmString that allows you to enter the comma-separated names of one or
more setup modules to be transmitted to the printer ahead of the file to
be printed.  The default is Null.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNsheetCount\*O"
An integer value in the range of 0--10000 that specifies how many times
each sheet is to be printed.  This option is most frequently used with
PostScript printers, which require only a single transmission of information
to replicate a complex image (instead of multiple transmissions of the same
information).  The default is 0.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNsheetSize\*O"
An integer value that determines the size of the medium on which the
printing is to take place.  The possible values for sheet size are as follows:
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB
l l l .
_
.sp
Value@Size in Inches@Size in MM
.sp
_
.sp
DXmSIZE_DEFAULT@Queue Default@T{
Queue Default
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_LETTER@8.5 x 11@T{
216 x 279
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_LEDGER@11 x 17@T{
279 x 432
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_LEGAL@8.5 x 14@T{
216 x 356
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_EXECUTIVE@7.5 x QQQ10@T{
191 x 254
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_A5@5.8 x 8.3@T{
148 x 210
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_A4@8.3 x 11.7@T{
210 x 297
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_A3@11.7 x 16.5@T{
297 x 420
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_B5@ 7.2 x QQQ10.1@T{
176 x 250
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_B4@10.1 x 14.3@T{
250 x 353
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_C4_ENVELOPE@9 x 12.8@T{
229 x 324
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_C5_ENVELOPE@6.4 x 9@T{
162 x 229
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_C56_ENVELOPE@4.3 x 8.7@T{
110 x 220
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_10X13_ENVELOPE@10 x 13@T{
254 x 330.2
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_9X12_ENVELOPE@9 x 12@T{
228.6 x 304.8
T}
.sp
DXmSIZE_BUSINESS_ENVELOPE@4.125 x 9.5@T{
104.8 x 241.3
T}
.sp
_
.TE
.sp
The default is DXmSIZE_DEFAULT, or 0.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNsides\*O"
An integer value that determines  on how many sides of a medium the
printing is to take place and the manner in which the medium is turned
when switching from one side to the other.
.IP
The possible values for DXmNsides are as follows:
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Value@Description
.sp
_
.sp
DXmSIDES_DEFAULT@T{
The default for the queue on which you are printing.
T}
.sp
DXmSIDES_SIMPLEX_ONE@T{
Prints on one side only.  This is also known as one-sided-simplex.
T}
.sp
DXmSIDES_SIMPLEX_TWO@T{
Prints on two sides of the sheet, but uses the same page layout
conventions required for single-sided printing.  The layout reflects
margin and page number locations and related specifications.
T}
.sp
DXmSIDES_DUPLEX_ONE@T{
Prints only on the first side of each sheet, but retains the page
layout intended for duplex printing.  The layout reflects margin and
page number locations and related specifications.
T}
.sp
DXmSIDES_DUPLEX_TWO@T{
Prints on two sides; the second side is accessed by flipping the page
along its left edge, like turning the pages of a book.  This is also
known as two-sided-duplex.
T}
.sp
DXmSIDES_TUMBLE_ONE@T{
Prints only on the first side of each sheet, but retains the page
layout intended for tumble printing.  The layout reflects margin and
page number locations and related specifications.
T}
.sp
DXmSIDES_TUMBLE_TWO@T{
Prints on two sides, and the second side is reached by flipping the page
along its top edge, like turning the pages of a legal document.  This is
also known as two-sided-tumble.
T}
.sp
_
.TE
.IP
The default is DXmSIDES_DEFAULT, or 0.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNstartSheetComment\*O"
The XmString to appear on your File Start Sheet.
The default is Null.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNsuppressOptionsMask\*O"
Suppresses certain print widget features, such as the number of print
choices available to the user.  The possible values for this resource are
as follows:
.ML
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_AUTOMATIC_PAGINATION
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_DELETE_FILE
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_DOUBLE_SPACING
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_FILE_BURST_SHEET
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_FILE_END_SHEET
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_FILE_START_SHEET
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_HEADER
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_HOLD_JOB
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_INPUT_TRAY
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_JOB_NAME
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_LAYUP_DEFINITION
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_MESSAGE_LOG
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_NONE
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_NOTIFY
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_NUMBER_COPIES
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_NUMBER_UP
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_OPERATOR_MESSAGE
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_ORIENTATION
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_OUTPUT_TRAY
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_PAGE_RANGE
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_PAGE_SIZE
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_PASS_ALL
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_PRINT_AFTER
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_PRINT_FORMAT
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_PRINTER
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_PRINTER_FORM
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_PRIORITY
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_SETUP
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_SHEET_COUNT
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_SHEET_SIZE
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_SIDES
.LI
DXmSUPPRESS_START_SHEET_COMMENT
.LE
.IP
The default value is dependent upon the print capabilities of the
particular operating system.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNunmanageOnCancel\*O"
A Boolean value that specifies whether the print widget automatically
unmanages itself when the Cancel button in the primary box is pressed.
The default is False.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNunmanageOnOk\*O"
A Boolean value that specifies whether the print widget automatically
unmanages itself when the Ok button in the primary box is pressed.
The default is False.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LXmNcancelCallback\*O"
Callback made when the user clicks on the Cancel pushbutton in the print
widget primary dialog box.  If the \*LDXmNunmanageOnCancel\*O resource is
set, the print widget automatically unmanages itself when the Cancel
button in the primary box is pressed.  The callback reason is
\*LXmCR_CANCEL\*O.  The default is Null.  Access is CSG.
.IP
Your application can use the \*LXmNcancelCallback\*O callback to perform
related functions as well.
.LI "\*LXmNokCallback\*O"
Callback made when the user clicks on the Ok pushbutton in the print
widget primary dialog box.  If the DXmNunmanageOnOk resource is set,
the print widget automatically unmanages itself when the Ok button in
the primary box is pressed.  The callback reason is \*LXmCR_OK\*O.
The default is Null.  Access is CSG.
.IP
Note that your application can use the \*LXmNokCallback\*O callback to
perform other functions, such as calling \*LDXmPrintWgtPrintJob\*O to
submit the print job.
.LE
.SS Resource Information
.sS
\*Ltypedef struct
{
      int     \*Vreason\*L;
      XEvent  *\*Vevent\*L;
} XmAnyCallbackStruct;\*O
.sE
.PP
\*LCallback Field Descriptions\*O
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vreason\*O"
An integer set to the callback reason.  See the Callback Reasons section
for the values that are valid for this widget.
.LI "\*Vevent\*O"
A pointer to the X event structure describing the event that generated
this callback.
.LE
.SS Callback Reasons
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LXmCR_OK\*O"
The user activated the Ok pushbutton in the print widget primary dialog box.
.LI "\*LXmCR_CANCEL\*O"
The user activated the Cancel pushbutton in the print widget primary dialog
box.
.LE
.SS Inherited Resources
\*LDXmCreatePrintDialog\*O inherits behaviour and resources from the
following superclasses:
.PP
.oS
Core Resource Set
Composite Resource Set
Constraint Resource Set
XmManager Resource Set
XmBulletinBoard Resource Set
DXmPrintDialog Resource Set
.oE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The identifier (widget ID) of the created print widget.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LDXmPrintWgtAugmentList\*O(3X),
\*LDXmPrintWgtPrintJob\*O(3X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
