.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmColorMixGetNewColor.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/14 20:11:33 $
.\"
.TH DXmColorMixGetNewColor 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmColorMixGetNewColor\*O \- Retrieves (returns) the color mixing widget's current new color red, green, and blue values.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmColorMixGetNewColor"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmColorMixGetNewColor(\*Vcmw\*L, \*Vred\*L, \*Vgreen\*L, \*Vblue\*L)
      DXmColorMixWidget  \*Vcmw\*L;
      unsigned short     *\*Vred\*L;
      unsigned short     *\*Vgreen\*L;
      unsigned short     *\*Vblue\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vcmw\*O"
The widget identifier of the color mixing widget.
.LI "\*Vred\*O"
A pointer to the returned new color red value.
.LI "\*Vgreen\*O"
A pointer to the returned new color green value.
.LI "\*Vblue\*O"
A pointer to the returned new color blue value.
.LE
.PP
A complete list of all the X color values available to you is located
on your system.  To find it, type the following command:
.PP
.iS
% find / \-name '*rgb*' \-print
.iE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\*LDXmColorMixGetNewColor\*O allows the calling application or routine
to quickly obtain the current color value from the color mixing widget.
Note that if your application uses the default color mixing subwidget,
the application will perform this operation faster if you call
this routine instead of the Intrinsic routine \*LXtGetValues\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LDXmColorMixSetNewColor\*O(3X),
\*LDXmCreateColorMix\*O(3X),
\*LDXmCreateColorMixDialog\*O(3X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
