.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmCreateHelpDialog.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/14 19:52:09 $
.\"
.TH DXmCreateHelpDialog 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmCreateHelpDialog\*O \- Creates the Help widget with a dialog box.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmCreateHelpDialog"
.sS
\*LWidget DXmCreateHelpDialog (\*Vparent\*L, \*Vname\*L, \*Varglist\*L, \*Vargcount\*L)
        Widget   \*Vparent\*L;
        char     *\*Vname\*L;
        Arglist  \*Varglist\*L;
        int      \*Vargcount\*L;
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vparent\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the parent widget.
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
The name of the created widget.
.LI "\*Varglist\*O"
The application argument list.
.LI "\*Vargcount\*O"
An integer that represents the number of arguments in the
application argument list.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmCreateHelpDialog\*O routine creates a help widget that includes
its own dialog box.  The help widget is a modeless widget that enables the
application to display appropriate user assistance information in response
to a user request.  When the user requests help, the help widget displays
an initial help topic, then gives the user the ability to view additional
help topics.
.PP
The \*LDXmNfirstTopic\*O resource allows the application to provide
context-sensitive help by selecting a specific topic based on implicit or
explicit cues from the user.
.PP
After the widget has been created, you can change the help topic by
specifying a new \*LDXmNfirstTopic\*O (using the Intrinsic routine
\*LXtSetValues\*O), and then managing the widget (using the Intrinsic
routine \*LXtManageChild\*O) to display the help window.
.PP
When the user exits from a help session, the widget is automatically
unmanaged.
.SS Resource Information
The help widget does not support children.
.PP
You can set the following widget-specific resources in the \*Varglist\*O:
.PP
.oS
XmString       DXmNaddtopicLabel;
XmString       DXmNapplicationName;
XmString       DXmNbadFrameMessage;
XmString       DXmNbadlibMessage;
Boolean        DXmNcacheHelpLibrary;
XmString       DXmNcloseLabel;
int            DXmNcols;
XmString       DXmNcopyLabel;
KeySym         DXmNcopyLabelMnem;
XmString       DXmNcopyLabelMnemCS;
Boolean        DXmNdefaultPosition;
XmString       DXmNdismissLabel;
XmString       DXmNeditLabel;
KeySym         DXmNeditLabelMnem;
XmString       DXmNeditLabelMnemCS;
XmString       DXmNerroropenMessage;
XmString       DXmNexitLabel;
KeySym         DXmNexitLabelMnem;
XmString       DXmNexitLabelMnemCS;
XmString       DXmNfileLabel;
KeySym         DXmNfileLabelMnem;
XmString       DXmNfileLabelMnemCS;
XmString       DXmNfirstTopic;
XmString       DXmNglossaryTopic;
XmString       DXmNgobackLabel;
KeySym         DXmNgobackLabelMnem;
XmString       DXmNgobackLabelMnemCS;
XmString       DXmNgobacktopicLabel;
XmString       DXmNgooverLabel;
KeySym         DXmNgooverLabelMnem;
XmString       DXmNgooverLabelMnemCS;
XmString       DXmNgotoLabel;
XmString       DXmNgototopicLabel;
KeySym         DXmNgototopicLabelMnem;
XmString       DXmNgototopicLabelMnemCS;
XmString       DXmNhelpAcknowledgeLabel;
XmString       DXmNhelphelpLabel;
KeySym         DXmNhelphelpLabelMnem;
XmString       DXmNhelphelpLabelMnemCS;
XmString       DXmNhelpLabel;
KeySym         DXmNhelpLabelMnem;
XmString       DXmNhelpLabelMnemCS;
XmString       DXmNhelpOnHelpTitle;
XmString       DXmNhelpontitleLabel;
XmString       DXmNhelptitleLabel;
XmString       DXmNhistoryboxLabel;
XmString       DXmNhistoryLabel;
KeySym         DXmNhistoryLabelMnem;
XmString       DXmNhistoryLabelMnemCS;
XmString       DXmNkeywordLabel;
KeySym         DXmNkeywordLabelMnem;
XmString       DXmNkeywordLabelMnemCS;
XmString       DXmNkeywordsLabel;
XmString       DXmNlibrarySpec;
unsigned int   DXmNlibraryType;
XmString       DXmNnokeywordMessage;
XmString       DXmNnotitleMessage;
XmString       DXmNnulllibMessage;
XmString       DXmNoverviewTopic;
int            DXmNrows;
XmString       DXmNsaveasLabel;
KeySym         DXmNsaveasLabelMnem;
XmString       DXmNsaveasLabelMnemCS;
XmString       DXmNsearchapplyLabel;
XmString       DXmNsearchkeywordboxLabel;
XmString       DXmNsearchLabel;
KeySym         DXmNsearchLabelMnem;
XmString       DXmNsearchLabelMnemCS;
XmString       DXmNsearchtitleboxLabel;
XmString       DXmNselectallLabel;
KeySym         DXmNselectallLabelMnem;
XmString       DXmNselectallLabelMnemCS;
XmString       DXmNtitleLabel;
KeySym         DXmNtitleLabelMnem;
XmString       DXmNtitleLabelMnemCS;
XmString       DXmNtitlesLabel;
XmString       DXmNtopictitlesLabel;
XmString       DXmNviewLabel;
KeySym         DXmNviewLabelMnem;
XmString       DXmNviewLabelMnemCS;
XmString       DXmNvisitglosLabel;
KeySym         DXmNvisitglosLabelMnem;
XmString       DXmNvisitglosLabelMnemCS;
XmString       DXmNvisitLabel;
XmString       DXmNvisittopicLabel;
KeySym         DXmNvisittopicLabelMnem;
XmString       DXmNvisittopicLabelMnemCS;
XtCallbackList XmNmapCallback;
XtCallbackList XmNunmapCallback;
.oE
.SS Resources
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LDXmNaddtopicLabel\*O"
The label indicating additional topics for help.  The default is
"Additional topics".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNapplicationName\*O"
The application name to be used in the widget title bar.  The default is Null.
Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNbadFrameMessage\*O"
The message displayed when a frame could not be found.  The default is
"Couldn't find frame !CS".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNbadlibMessage\*O"
The message displayed when a requested library could not be found.
The default is "Couldn't open library !CS".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNcacheHelpLibrary\*O"
A Boolean resource that specifies whether the text of the help library is
stored in the help widget's cache memory.  When True, the text is stored
in cache memory; when False, the text is not stored in cache memory.  The
default is False.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNcloseLabel\*O"
The label for the Exit push button in the help widget window.  The default
is "Exit".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNcols\*O"
The width, in characters, of the help text window.  The default is
language dependent; the American English default is 55.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNcopyLabel\*O"
The label for the Copy menu item in the Edit menu.  The default is "Copy".
Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNcopyLabelMnem\*O"
Specifies which key the user can press (instead of clicking MB1) to activate
the Copy menu item in the Edit menu.  This resource defines the key on the
keyboard and visually identifies that key for the user by inserting an
underscore (_) beneath the designated letter in the Copy menu label.
The default is an underscore (_) inserted beneath the letter "C", with
the corresponding key defined on the keyboard.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNcopyLabelMnemCS\*O"
Establishes the character set used when identifying the letter in the
Copy menu label that corresponds to the key the user can press (as defined
by the \*LDXmNcopyLabelMnem\*O resource) to activate the Copy menu item.
The default character set is ISO8859-1.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNdefaultPosition\*O"
A Boolean resource that, when True, causes the core resources \*Vx\*O
and \*Vy\*O to be ignored in favor of the default widget position.
The default widget position is centered in the parent window.  When False,
the specified \*Vx\*O and \*Vy\*O resources are used to position the widget.
The default is True.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNdismissLabel\*O"
The label for the push button used to dismiss a help widget dialog box
(for example, Search History, Search Title, Search Keyword boxes).  The
default is "Dismiss".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNeditLabel\*O"
The label for the Edit pull-down menu.  The default is "Edit".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNeditLabelMnem\*O"
Specifies which key the user can press (instead of clicking MB1) to activate
the Edit pull-down menu.  This resource defines the key on the keyboard and
visually identifies that key for the user by inserting an underscore (_)
beneath the designated letter in the Edit pull-down menu label.  The default
is an underscore (_) inserted beneath the letter "E", with the corresponding
key defined on the keyboard.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNeditLabelMnemCS\*O"
Establishes the character set used when identifying the letter in the Edit
pull-down menu label that corresponds to the key the user can press (as
defined by the \*LDXmNeditLabelMnem\*O resource) to activate the Edit
pull-down menu.  The default character set is ISO8859-1.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNerroropenMessage\*O"
The error message displayed when a file cannot be opened.  The default
is "Error opening file !CS".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNexitLabel\*O"
The label for the exit menu item in the File pull-down menu.  The default
is "Exit".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNexitLabelMnem\*O"
Specifies which key the user can press (instead of clicking MB1) to
activate the Exit menu item in the File pull-down menu.  This resource
defines the key on the keyboard and visually identifies that key for
the user by inserting an underscore (_) beneath the designated letter
in the Exit menu label.  The default is an underscore (_) inserted
beneath the letter "E", with the corresponding key defined on the
keyboard.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNexitLabelMnemCS\*O"
Establishes the character set used when identifying the letter in the Exit
menu label that corresponds to the key the user can press (as defined by the
\*LDXmNexitLabelMnem\*O resource) to activate the Exit menu item in the
File pull-down menu.  The default character set is ISO8859-1.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNfileLabel\*O"
The label for the File pull-down menu.  The default is "File".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNfileLabelMnem\*O"
Specifies which key the user can press (instead of clicking MB1) to
activate the File pull-down menu.  This resource defines the key on the
keyboard and visually identifies that key for the user by inserting an
underscore (_) beneath the designated letter in the File pull-down menu
label.  The default is an underscore (_) inserted beneath the letter "F",
with the corresponding key defined on the keyboard.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNfileLabelMnemCS\*O"
Establishes the character set used when identifying the letter in the
File pull-down menu label that corresponds to the key the user can press
(as defined by the \*LDXmNfileLabelMnem\*O resource) to activate the File
pull-down menu.  The default character set is ISO8859-1.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNfirstTopic\*O"
The first help topic to be displayed.  If a null string is passed, a list
of level one topics is displayed.  The default is Null.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNglossaryTopic\*O"
The application glossary topic.  If a null string is provided, the Visit
Glossary menu item does not appear in the View pull-down menu.  The
default is Null.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNgobackLabel\*O"
The label for the Go Back menu item in the View pull-down menu.  The default
is "Go Back".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNgobackLabelMnem\*O"
Specifies which key the user can press (instead of clicking MB1) to
activate the Go Back menu item in the View pull-down menu.  This resource
defines the key on the keyboard and visually identifies that key for the
user by inserting an underscore (_) beneath the designated letter in the
Go Back menu label.  The default is an underscore (_) inserted beneath the
letter "B", with the corresponding key defined on the keyboard.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNgobackLabelMnemCS\*O"
Establishes the character set used when identifying the letter in the Go
Back menu label that corresponds to the key the user can press (as defined
by the \*LDXmNgobackLabelMnem\*O resource) to activate the Go Back menu
item in the View pull-down menu.  The default character set is ISO8859-1.
Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNgobacktopicLabel\*O"
The label for the Go Back push button in the help widget window.  The
default is "Go Back".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNgooverLabel\*O"
The label for the Go To Overview item in the View pull-down menu.
The default is "Go To Overview".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNgooverLabelMnem\*O"
Specifies which key the user can press (instead of clicking MB1) to
activate the Go To Overview item in the View pull-down menu.  This
resource defines the key on the keyboard and visually identifies that key
for the user by inserting an underscore (_) beneath the designated letter
in the Go To Overview menu label.  The default is an underscore (_)
inserted beneath the letter "O", with the corresponding key defined on the
keyboard.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNgooverLabelMnemCS\*O"
Establishes the character set used when identifying the letter in the Go
To Overview menu label that corresponds to the key the user can press
(as defined by the \*LDXmNgooverLabelMnem\*O resource) to activate the
Go To Overview item in the View pull-down menu.  The default character set
is ISO8859-1.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNgotoLabel\*O"
The label for the Go To push button in the help widget's dialog boxes.
The default is "Go To".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNgototopicLabel\*O"
The label for the Go To Topic menu item in the View pull-down menu.
The default is "Go To Topic".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNgototopicLabelMnem\*O"
Specifies which key the user can press (instead of clicking MB1) to
activate the Go To Topic menu item in the View pull-down menu.  This
resource defines the key on the keyboard and visually identifies that
key for the user by inserting an underscore (_) beneath the designated letter
in the Go To Topic menu label.  The default is an underscore (_)
inserted beneath the letter "T", with the corresponding key defined on the
keyboard.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNgototopicLabelMnemCS\*O"
Establishes the character set used when identifying the letter in the Go
To Topic menu label that corresponds to the key the user can press (as
defined by the \*LDXmNgototopicLabelMnem\*O resource) to activate the Go
To Topic menu item in the View pull-down menu.  The default character set
is ISO8859-1.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNhelpAcknowledgeLabel\*O"
The label for the Acknowledge push button in the error message box.
The default is "OK".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNhelphelpLabel\*O"
The label for the Overview menu item in the Using Help pull-down menu.
The default is "On Window...".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNhelphelpLabelMnem\*O"
Specifies which key the user can press (instead of clicking MB1) to
activate the Overview menu item in the Using Help pull-down menu. This
resource defines the key on the keyboard and visually identifies that key
for the user by inserting an underscore (_) beneath the designated letter
in the Overview menu label.  The default is an underscore (_) inserted
beneath the letter "W", with the corresponding key defined on the
keyboard.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNhelphelpLabelMnemCS\*O"
Establishes the character set used when identifying the letter in the
Overview menu label that corresponds to the key the user can press (as
defined by the \*LDXmNhelphelpLabelMnem\*O resource) to activate the
Overview menu item in the Using Help pull-down menu.  The default character
set is ISO8859-1.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNhelpLabel\*O"
The label for the Help pull-down menu.  The default is "Using Help".
Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNhelpLabelMnem\*O"
Specifies which key the user can press (instead of clicking MB1) to
activate the Help pull-down menu.  This resource defines the key on the
keyboard and visually identifies that key for the user by inserting an
underscore (_) beneath the designated letter in the Help pull-down menu
label.  The default is an underscore (_) inserted beneath the letter "U",
with the corresponding key defined on the keyboard.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNhelpLabelMnemCS\*O"
Establishes the character set used when identifying the letter in the Help
pull-down menu label that corresponds to the key the user can press (as
defined by the \*LDXmNhelpLabelMnem\*O resource) to activate the Help
pull-down menu.  The default character set is ISO8859-1.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNhelpOnHelpTitle\*O"
The label for the title bar in the Help-on-Help help subwidget.
The default is "Using Help".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNhelpontitleLabel\*O"
The label for the help widget title bar used in conjunction with the
application name.  The default is "Help On".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNhelptitleLabel\*O"
The label for the help widget title bar when no application name is
specified.  The default is "Help".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNhistoryboxLabel\*O"
The label for the history dialog box.  The default is "Search Topic History".
Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNhistoryLabel\*O"
The label for the History... menu item in the Search pull-down menu.
The default is "History...".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNhistoryLabelMnem\*O"
Specifies which key the user can press (instead of clicking MB1) to
activate the History... menu item in the Search pull-down menu.  This
resource defines the key on the keyboard and visually identifies that key
for the user by inserting an underscore (_) beneath the designated letter
in the History... menu label.  The default is an underscore (_) inserted
beneath the letter "H", with the corresponding key defined on the
keyboard.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNhistoryLabelMnemCS\*O"
Establishes the character set used when identifying the letter in the
History... menu label that corresponds to the key the user can press (as
defined by the \*LDXmNhistoryLabelMnem\*O resource) to activate the
History... menu item in the Search pull-down menu.  The default character
set is ISO8859-1.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNkeywordLabel\*O"
The label for the Keyword... menu item in the Search pull-down menu.
The default is "Keyword...".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNkeywordLabelMnem\*O"
Specifies which key the user can press (instead of clicking MB1) to
activate the Keyword... menu item in the Search pull-down menu.  This
resource defines the key on the keyboard and visually identifies that key
for the user by inserting an underscore (_) beneath the designated letter
in the Keyword... menu label.  The default is an underscore (_) inserted
beneath the letter "K", with the corresponding key defined on the
keyboard.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNkeywordLabelMnemCS\*O"
Establishes the character set used when identifying the letter in the
Keyword... menu label that corresponds to the key the user can press (as
defined by the \*LDXmNkeywordLabelMnem\*O resource) to activate the
Keyword... menu item in the Search pull-down menu.  The default character
set is ISO8859-1.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNkeywordsLabel\*O"
The label used in a Search Topic Keyword box to identify the text entry
field.  The default is "Keyword".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNlibrarySpec\*O"
A host system file specification that identifies the help topic library.
The default is Null.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNlibraryType\*O"
The type of help topic library specified by the \*LDXmNlibrarySpec\*O
resource.  The predefined value for this resource is \*LDXmTextLibrary\*O,
which is a type of UNIX help directory.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNnokeywordMessage\*O"
The message displayed when a requested keyword cannot be found.
The default is "Couldn't find keyword !CS".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNnotitleMessage\*O"
The message displayed when a requested title cannot be found.
The default is "No title to match string !CS".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNnulllibMessage\*O"
The text for the message displayed when no library has been specified.
The default is "No library specified".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNoverviewTopic\*O"
The application overview topic. The default is Null.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNrows\*O"
Height, in characters, of the help text window.  The default is language
dependent; the American English default is 20.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNsaveasLabel\*O"
The label for the Save As... item in a File pull-down menu.
The default is "Save As...".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNsaveasLabelMnem\*O"
Specifies which key the user can press (instead of clicking MB1) to
activate the Save As... item in a File pull-down menu.  This resource
defines the key on the keyboard and visually identifies that key for the
user by inserting an underscore (_) beneath the designated letter
in the Save As... menu label.  The default is an underscore (_) inserted
beneath the letter "A", with the corresponding key defined on the
keyboard.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNsaveasLabelMnemCS\*O"
Establishes the character set used when identifying the letter in the
Save As... menu label that corresponds to the key the user can press (as
defined by the \*LDXmNsaveasLabelMnem\*O resource) to activate the
Save As... item in a File pull-down menu.  The default character set is
ISO8859-1.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNsearchapplyLabel\*O"
The label for the push button used to initiate a search action in a
Search dialog box.  The default is "Apply".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNsearchkeywordboxLabel\*O"
The label for a Search Topic Keywords dialog box.  The default is
"Search Topic Keywords".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNsearchLabel\*O"
The label for the Search pull-down menu.  The default is "Search".
Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNsearchLabelMnem\*O"
Specifies which key the user can press (instead of clicking MB1) to
activate the Search pull-down menu.  This resource defines the key on
the keyboard and visually identifies that key for the user by inserting an
underscore (_) beneath the designated letter in the Search pull-down menu
label.  The default is an underscore (_) inserted beneath the letter "S",
with the corresponding key defined on the keyboard.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNsearchLabelMnemCS\*O"
Establishes the character set used when identifying the letter in the
Search pull-down menu label that corresponds to the key the user can press
(as defined by the \*LDXmNsearchLabelMnem\*O resource) to activate the
Search pull-down menu.  The default character set is ISO8859-1.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNsearchtitleboxLabel\*O"
The title of a Search Topic Titles box.  The default is "Search Topic Titles".
Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNselectallLabel\*O"
The label for the Select All item on the Edit pull-down menu.
The default is "Select All".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNselectallLabelMnem\*O"
Specifies which key the user can press (instead of clicking MB1) to activate
the Select All item on the Edit pull-down menu.  This resource defines
the key on the keyboard and visually identifies that key for the user by
inserting an underscore (_) beneath the designated letter in the Select
All menu label.  The default is an underscore (_) inserted beneath the
letter "S", with the corresponding key defined on the keyboard.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNselectallLabelMnemCS\*O"
Establishes the character set used when identifying the letter in the
Select All menu label that corresponds to the key the user can press (as
defined by the \*LDXmNselectLabelMnem\*O resource) to activate the
Select All item on the Edit pull-down menu.  The default character set is
ISO8859-1.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNtitleLabel\*O"
The label for the Title... item in the Search pull-down menu.
The default is "Title...".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNtitleLabelMnem\*O"
Specifies which key the user can press (instead of clicking MB1) to
activate the Title... item in the Search pull-down menu. This resource
defines the key on the keyboard and visually identifies that key for the
user by inserting an underscore (_) beneath the designated letter
in the Title... menu label.  The default is an underscore (_) inserted
beneath the letter "T", with the corresponding key defined on the
keyboard.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNtitleLabelMnemCS\*O"
Establishes the character set used when identifying the letter in the
Title... menu label that corresponds to the key the user can press (as
defined by the \*LDXmNtitleLabelMnem\*O resource) to activate the
Title... item in the Search pull-down menu.  The default character set is
ISO8859-1.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNtitlesLabel\*O"
The label identifying the text entry field on the Search Topic Titles box.
The default is "Title".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNtopictitlesLabel\*O"
The label used to identify topics found as a result of a title search in a
Search Topic Titles box.  The default is "Topic Titles".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNviewLabel\*O"
The label for the View menu.  The default is "View".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNviewLabelMnem\*O"
Specifies which key the user can press (instead of clicking MB1) to
activate the View menu.  This resource defines the key on the keyboard and
visually identifies that key for the user by inserting an underscore (_)
beneath the designated letter in the View menu label.  The default is an
underscore (_) inserted beneath the letter "V", with the corresponding key
defined on the keyboard.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNviewLabelMnemCS\*O"
Establishes the character set used when identifying the letter in the View
menu label that corresponds to the key the user can press (as defined by the
\*LDXmNviewLabelMnem\*O resource) to activate the View menu.
The default character set is ISO8859-1.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNvisitglosLabel\*O"
The label for the Visit Glossary item in the View pull-down menu. The
default is "Visit Glossary".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNvisitglosLabelMnem\*O"
Specifies which key the user can press (instead of clicking MB1) to
activate the Visit Glossary item in the View pull-down menu.  This resource
defines the key on the keyboard and visually identifies that key for the
user by inserting an underscore (_) beneath the designated letter
in the Visit Glossary menu label.  The default is an underscore (_) inserted
beneath the letter "G", with the corresponding key defined on the
keyboard.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNvisitglosLabelMnemCS\*O"
Establishes the character set used when identifying the letter in the
Visit Glossary menu label that corresponds to the key the user can press
(as defined by the \*LDXmNvisitglosLabelMnem\*O resource) to activate the
Visit Glossary item in the View pull-down menu.  The default character set
is ISO8859-1.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNvisitLabel\*O"
The label for the Visit push button in the help widget's dialog boxes.
The default is "Visit".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNvisittopicLabel\*O"
The label for the Visit Topic menu item in the View pull-down menu. The
default is "Visit Topic".  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LDXmNvisittopicLabelMnem\*O"
Specifies which key the user can press (instead of clicking MB1) to
activate the Visit Topic menu item in the View pull-down menu.  This resource
defines the key on the keyboard and visually identifies that key for the
user by inserting an underscore (_) beneath the designated letter
in the Visit Topic menu label.  The default is an underscore (_) inserted
beneath the letter "V", with the corresponding key defined on the
keyboard.  Access is CG.
.LI "\*LDXmNvisittopicLabelMnemCS\*O"
Establishes the character set used when identifying the letter in the
Visit Topic menu label that corresponds to the key the user can press (as
defined by the \*LDXmNvisittopicLabelMnem\*O resource) to activate the
Visit Topic menu item in the View pull-down menu.  The default character
set is ISO8859-1.  Access is CSG.
.LI "\*LXmNmapCallback\*O"
Callback (or callbacks) made when the help widget is mapped.  The callback
reason is \*VXmCR_MAP\*O.  The default is Null.  Access is C.
.LI "\*LXmNunmapCallback\*O"
Callback (or callbacks) made when the help widget is unmapped. The callback
reason is \*VXmCR_UNMAP\*O.  The default is Null.  Access is C.
.LE
.SS Resource Information
The resources \*VXmNwidth\*O and \*VXmNheight\*O are supported differently by
\*LDXmCreateHelpDialog\*O in that they cannot be set by the caller.
These values are calculated by the widget, based on the size of the text
window (\*VXmNcols\*O and \*VXmNrows\*O).
.SS Resource Information
.sS
\*Ltypedef struct
{
      int     \*Vreason\*L;
      XEvent  *\*Vevent\*L;
} XmAnyCallbackStruct;\*O
.sE
.PP
\*LCallback Field Descriptions\*O
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vreason\*O"
An integer set to the callback reason.  See the Callback Reasons section
for the values that are valid for this widget.
.LI "\*Vevent\*O"
A pointer to the X event structure describing the event that generated
this callback.
.LE
.SS Callback Reasons
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LXmCR_MAP\*O"
The help window was just mapped.
.LI "\*LXmCR_UNMAP\*O"
The help window was just unmapped.
.LE
.SS Resource Information
The help widget does not support children.
.SS Resizing
The help widget sizes itself at creation, based on \*VXmNrows\*O and
\*VXmNcols\*O.
.SS Resizing
.SS Inherited Resources
\*LDXmCreateHelpDialog\*O inherits behaviour and resources from the
following superclasses:
.PP
.oS
Core Resource Set
Composite Resource Set
Constraint Resource Set
XmManager Resource Set
DXmHelpDialog Resource Set
.oE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The identifier (widget ID) of the created Help widget.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
