.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmDisplayCSMessage.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/02 21:50:40 $
.\"
.TH DXmDisplayCSMessage 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmDisplayCSMessage\*O \- Displays a compound string message.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmDisplayCSMessage"
.sS
\*LWidget DXmDisplayCSMessage(\*Vparent_widget\*L, \*Vname\*L,
                           \*Vdefault_position\*L, \*Vx\*L, \*Vy\*L,
                           \*Vstyle\*L, \*Vmessage_vector\*L,
                           \*Vwidget\*L, \*Vconvert_proc\*L,
                           \*Vok_callback\*L, \*Vhelp_callback\*L)
        Widget          \*Vparent_widget\*L;
        char            *\*Vname\*L;
        Boolean         \*Vdefault_position\*L;
        Position        \*Vx\*L;
        Position        \*Vy\*L;
        unsigned char   \*Vstyle\*L;
        int             *\*Vmessage_vector\*L;
        Widget          *\*Vwidget\*L;
        int             *\*Vconvert_proc\*L;
        XtCallbackList  \*Vok_callback\*L;
        XtCallbackList  \*Vhelp_callback\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vparent_widget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) for the parent widget of the created widget.
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
The name of the created widget.
.LI "\*Vdefault_position\*O"
When True, the \*Vx\*O and \*Vy\*O positions of the widget window are
ignored in favor of the default, which centers the message box in the
window of the parent widget.
.LI "\*Vx\*O"
The placement, in pixels, of the left side of the message box relative
to the inner upper-left corner of the parent window.
.LI "\*Vy\*O"
The placement, in pixels, of the upper side of the message box relative
to the inner upper-left corner of the parent window.
.LI "\*Vstyle\*O"
The style of the dialog box widget used for the message box.
The predefined values for this resource are as follows:
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
lw(2.5i) lw(1.5i) .
_
.sp
Value@Description
.sp
_
.sp
T{
\*LXmDIALOG_FULL_APPLICATION_MODAL\*O
T}@T{
Used for dialogs that must be responded to before other interactions
in the same application
T}
.sp
T{
\*LXmDIALOG_MODELESS\*O
T}@T{
Modeless type dialog box
T}
.sp
T{
\*LXmDIALOG_PRIMARY_APPLICATION_MODAL\*O
T}@T{
Used when dialogs must be responded to before other interactions in
ancestors of the widget
T}
.sp
T{
\*LXmDIALOG_SYSTEM_MODAL\*O
T}@T{
Modal type dialog box
T}
.sp
_
.TE
.IP
The default is \*LXmDIALOG_MODELESS\*O.
.LI "\*Vmessage_vector\*O"
The message argument vector specifying the compound strings and
associated information.
.IP
The first longword contains the number of longwords in the message
blocks to follow.  The first longword in each message block contains
a pointer to the compound string.  The next word consists of the
formatted ASCII output (FAO) parameter count.  The remaining longwords
in the message block are the FAO parameters.
.IP
In addition to the standard FAO system service flags, the compound string
message routine will accept the new FAO directive "!CS".  When used, this
directive will insert a compound string itself.
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of an already existing message box widget.
The Intrinsic routine \*LXtSetValues\*O is called on this widget to change the
text of the message to match the new message. (Note, however, that this call to
\*LXtSetValues \*O does not set \*Vdefault_position\*O, \*Vx\*O, \*Vy\*O, or
\*Vstyle\*O for the existing message box widget.)  If this parameter is 0,
a new message box widget is created.
.LI "\*Vconvert_proc\*O"
A pointer to a routine that is executed after the message is formatted
but before it is displayed.  A pointer to the formatted string is passed
to the routine as a parameter.
.IP
The parameter is a null-terminated character string.
.LI "\*Vok_callback\*O"
A callback descriptor data structure.  The callback is executed when the
user clicks on the Acknowledged button.  The reason is \*LXmCR_OK\*O.
.LI "\*Vhelp_callback\*O"
A callback descriptor data structure.  The callback is executed when
the user requests help.  The reason returned is \*LXmCR_HELP\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmDisplayCSMessage\*O routine accepts an array of compound strings,
formats them, and, if necessary, creates a message box. A return of
0 (Null) indicates that the message box could not be created.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The identifier (widget ID) of the message box widget.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
