.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmFormSpaceButtonsEqually.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/07 22:37:12 $
.\"
.TH DXmFormSpaceButtonsEqually 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmFormSpaceButtonsEqually\*O \- Sets push buttons in a form widget to be equally spaced and sized.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmFormSpaceButtonsEqually"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmFormSpaceButtonsEqually (\*Vparent\*L, \*Vwidget_list\*L, \*Vnum_widgets\*L)
      Widget    \*Vparent\*L;
      Widget    *\*Vwidget_list\*L;
      Cardinal  \*Vnum_widgets\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vparent\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the form widget containing the buttons.
.LI "\*Vwidget_list\*O"
Array of widget IDs of the push buttons to be changed.
.IP
Note that you must list the widget IDs in the same order
as they are displayed in the dialog box and that you should not
specify left or right attachments for the push buttons.
.LI "\*Vnum_widgets\*O"
The number of widgets in the widget_list.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmFormSpaceButtonsEqually\*O routine enables you to set the push
buttons in a form widget to be equally spaced and sized.  Your application
must call this routine after the dialog box is managed.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
