.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmFindFontFallback.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/14 20:26:31 $
.\"
.TH DXmFindFontFallback 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmFindFontFallback\*O \- Associates the given XLFD font name with a new XLFD font name.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmFindFontFallback"
.sS
\*Lchar *DXmFindFontFallback(\*Vfontname\*L)
       char  *\*Vfontname\*L;
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vfontname\*O"
A pointer to the XLFD font name.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmFindFontFallback\*O routine associates the given XLFD (X
Logical Font Description) font name with a new XLFD font name.  This
routine does not load the generated font, nor guarantee that it will load
successfully.  The application calling the routine is responsible for
freeing the returned font name through the Intrinsic routine \*LXtFree
when the font name is no longer required.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
A pointer to an XLFD font name string.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LDXmFindFontFallback\*O(3X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
