.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmGetLocaleString.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/07 22:41:00 $
.\"
.TH DXmGetLocaleString 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmGetLocaleString\*O \- Provides locale-sensitive Motif compound string version of Toolkit ASCII default values.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmGetLocaleString"
.sS
\*LXmString DXmGetLocaleString(\*Vcontext\*L, \*Vstring\*L, \*Vword_type\*L)
          I18nContext   \*Vcontext\*L;
          char          *\*Vstring\*L;
          I18nWordType  \*Vword_type\*L;
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vcontext\*O"
Reserved for future use. (Null value passed.)
.LI "\*Vstring\*O"
Null-terminated string specifying the ASCII string value whose locale
sensitive version is to be retrieved (for example, the string "OK").
.LI "\*Vword_type\*O"
Specifies the type (part of speech) of a word in the string, as
indicated by one of the following values:
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Value@Description
.sp
_
.sp
I18NADJECTIVE@T{
The word is an adjective.
T}
.sp
I18NADVERB@T{
The word is an adverb.
T}
.sp
I18NNOUN@T{
The word is a noun.
T}
.sp
I18NVERB@T{
The word is a verb.
T}
.sp
_
.TE
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmGetLocaleString\*O routine provides a locale-sensitive Motif
compound string version of Toolkit ASCII default values, such as "OK" or
"Cancel".  You can specify the part of speech (adjective, adverb, verb,
or noun) associated with each word in the string.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
A pointer to the Motif compound string containing the value.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
