.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmHelpSystemClose.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.4.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/24 22:12:32 $
.\"
.TH DXmHelpSystemClose 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmHelpSystemClose\*O \- Closes all of the remaining topic and navigation windows in Bookreader.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmHelpSystemClose"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmHelpSystemClose(\*Vhelp_context\*L, \*Vroutine\*L, \*Vtag\*L)
      Opaque  \*Vhelp_context\*L;
      void    ((*\*Vroutine\*L )()),
      Opaque  \*Vtag\*L );\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vhelp_context\*O"
Used by the DECwindows Motif Help System to pass required
LinkWorks and help information from one routine to another.
.LI "\*Vroutine\*O"
Used for error processing. If an error occurs within the
DECwindows Motif Help System and it cannot be processed by either
LinkWorks or Bookreader, the DECwindows Motif Help System calls
the error processing routine you have included in your application
and passes in an integer, or \*Vstatus\*O, to indicate the
status of the error processing operation, as follows:
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Value@Description
.sp
_
.sp
1@T{
The DECwindows Motif Help System could not find
the LinkWorks shareable image.
T}
.sp
2@T{
The DECwindows Motif Help System could not translate a
specified value into a valid file specification.
T}
.sp
_
.TE
.IP
Note the following:
.ML
.LI
The \*Vstatus\*O parameter is a \*Vsystem-supplied\*O
parameter that supplements the \*Vroutine\*O and \*Vtag\*O
parameters you have already specified in the application.
.LI
If an error cannot be processed by either LinkWorks or Bookreader and
you have not specified a supplementary error handling routine, your
system will generate an access violation error message.
.LE
.LI "\*Vtag\*O"
The parameter you supply for the previously described \*Vroutine\*O
parameter. Associating a tag with the routine enables you to more easily
determine where errors occur.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.ce 1
\*LNOTE\*O
.PP
.rS 5
This routine is not supported on all operating systems.
.rE
.PP
Within the DECwindows Motif Help System, the \*LDXmHelpSystemClose\*O
routine closes all of the remaining topic and navigation windows in the
Bookreader.  You should call this routine when your application is
closing all of its other windows.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LDXmHelpSystemDisplay\*O(3X),
\*LDXmHelpSystemOpen\*O(3X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
