.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmHelpOnContext.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/02 21:56:57 $
.\"
.TH DXmHelpOnContext 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmHelpOnContext\*O \- Enters the application into context sensitive help mode and either calls a help callback (if one exists) or searches for one in the widget's parent.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmHelpOnContext"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmHelpOnContext (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Vconfine\*L)
      Widget   \*Vwidget\*L;
      Boolean  \*Vconfine\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier of the widget (widget ID) to pass to the \*LXmTrackingLocate\*O
routine.
.LI "\*Vconfine\*O"
A Boolean value passed to \*LXmTrackingLocate\*O.  When True, confines the
help cursor (?) to the widget specified in the \*Vwidget\*O parameter.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmHelpOnContext\*O routine enters context sensitive help mode,
changing the cursor to the help cursor (?) and then waiting for an
MB1 click on a widget.  If the selected widget has a help callback, that
help callback is called; otherwise, the widget's parent is checked for
a help callback.
.PP
Note that a Null callback structure pointer is passed to the help
callback.  Therefore, help callbacks in your application should test the
value of this pointer before they attempt to use it.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LXmTrackingLocate\*O(3X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
