.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmHelpSystemOpen.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.3.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/14 20:08:46 $
.\"
.TH DXmHelpSystemOpen 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmHelpSystemOpen\*O \- Completes initialization operations required by LinkWorks and prepares to display a topic from the specified help file name.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmHelpSystemOpen"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmHelpSystemOpen(\*Vhelp_context\*L, \*Vmain_window\*L, \*Vhelp_file\*L, \*Vroutine\*L, \*Vtag\*L)
      Opaque  *\*Vhelp_context\*L;
      Widget  \*Vmain_window\*L;
      char    *\*Vhelp_file\*L;
      void    ((*\*Vroutine\*L )()),
      Opaque  \*Vtag\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vhelp_context\*O"
Used by the DECwindows Motif Help System to pass required LinkWorks and
help information from one routine to another.  Note that
\*Vhelp_context\*O must be defined globally; the \*LDXmHelpSystemDisplay\*O
and \*LDXmHelpSystemClose\*O routines subsequently use the address
initially set for this parameter.
.LI "\*Vmain_window\*O"
The identifier (ID) for the main window of the application.
.LI "\*Vhelp_file\*O"
The file name of the help file.  The default specifications are as follows:
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Default@Description
.sp
_
.sp
/usr/lib/X11/help/@Directory location
.sp
\&.decw_book@File extension
.sp
_
.TE
.IP
You can also provide your own location or extension along with the help
file name.
.IP
Note that \*Vhelp_file\*O is required for this routine but is optional for
\*LDXmHelpSystemDisplay\*O.
.LI "\*Vroutine\*O"
Used for error processing.  If an error occurs within the DECwindows
Motif Help System and it cannot be processed by either LinkWorks or
Bookreader, the DECwindows Motif Help System calls the error processing
routine you have included in your application and passes in an integer,
or \*Vstatus\*O, to indicate the status of the error processing operation,
as follows:
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Value@Description
.sp
_
.sp
1@T{
The DECwindows Motif Help System could not find the LinkWorks shareable image.
T}
.sp
2@T{
The DECwindows Motif Help System could not translate a specified value
into a valid file specification.
T}
.sp
_
.TE
.IP
Note the following:
.ML
.LI
The \*Vstatus\*O parameter is a \*Vsystem-supplied\*O parameter that
supplements the \*Vroutine\*O and \*Vtag\*O parameters you have already
specified in the application.
.LI
If an error cannot be processed by either LinkWorks or Bookreader and
you have not specified a supplementary error handling routine, your
system will generate an access violation error message.
.LE
.LI "\*Vtag\*O"
The parameter you supply to the previously described \*Vroutine\*O
parameter.  Associating a tag with the routine enables you to more easily
determine where errors occur.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.ce 1
\*LNOTE\*O
.rS 5
This routine is not supported on all operating systems.
.rE 5
.PP
Within the DECwindows Motif Help System, the \*LDXmHelpSystemOpen\*O
routine completes all of the initialization operations required by
LinkWorks, such as creating a DECwindows user interface object and a
surrogate object, and then prepares to display a topic from the help
file name passed in.  You should make the call to this routine just
before the main loop of your application.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LDXmHelpSystemClose\*O(3X),
\*LDXmHelpSystemDisplay\*O(3X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
