.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmHelpSystemDisplay.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.4.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/14 20:08:39 $
.\"
.TH DXmHelpSystemDisplay 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmHelpSystemDisplay\*O \- Displays a topic or directory of the help file in Bookreader.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmHelpSystemDisplay"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmHelpSystemDisplay(\*Vhelp_context\*L, \*Vhelp_file\*L, \*Vkeyword\*L, \*Vname\*L, \*Vroutine\*L, \*Vtag\*L)
      Opaque  \*Vhelp_context\*L;
      char    *\*Vhelp_file\*L;
      char    *\*Vkeyword\*L;
      char    *\*Vname\*L;
      void    ((*\*Vroutine\*L )()),
      Opaque  \*Vtag\*L );\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vhelp_context\*O"
Used by the DECwindows Motif Help System to pass required
LinkWorks and help information from one routine to another.
.LI "\*Vhelp_file\*O"
Optional.  The file name of the help file. If Null or "" is supplied,
Bookreader will use the help file name passed in to the
\*LDXmHelpSystemOpen\*O routine; otherwise a new file name can be passed.
.LI "\*Vkeyword\*O"
One of two values: "topic" or "dir".  Pointers to these strings can be
passed instead.
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
The topic symbol from the help callback if "topic" is used for the keyword.
If "dir" is used, then \*Vname\*O refers to the name of the Bookreader
directory that should be opened, such as "Contents" or "Index".
Either specific strings or pointers to strings may be passed in.
.LI "\*Vroutine\*O"
Used for error processing.  If an error occurs within the
DECwindows Motif Help System and it cannot be processed by either
LinkWorks or Bookreader, the DECwindows Motif Help System calls
the error processing routine you have included in your application
and passes in an integer, or \*Vstatus\*O, to indicate the
status of the error processing operation, as follows:
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Value@Description
.sp
_
.sp
1@T{
The DECwindows Motif Help System could not find the LinkWorks shareable image.
T}
.sp
2@T{
The DECwindows Motif Help System could not translate a specified value
into a valid file specification.
T}
.sp
_
.TE
.IP
Note the following:
.ML
.LI
The \*Vstatus\*O parameter is a \*Vsystem-supplied\*O
parameter that supplements the \*Vroutine\*O and \*Vtag\*O
parameters you have already specified in the application.
.LI
If an error cannot be processed by either LinkWorks or Bookreader and
you have not specified a supplementary error handling routine, your
system will generate an access violation error message.
.LE
.LI "\*Vtag\*O"
The parameter you supply to the previously described \*Vroutine\*O
parameter.  Associating a tag with the routine enables you to more
easily determine where errors occur.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.ce 1
\*LNOTE\*O
.PP
.rS 5
This routine is not supported on all operating systems.
.rE
.PP
The \*LDXmHelpSystemDisplay\*O routine (which you use instead of a call
to the help widget) displays a topic or directory of the help file in
Bookreader, using the DECwindows Motif Help System.  This routine can also
be used to display topics or directories of books other than the ones
passed in to \*LDXmHelpSystemOpen\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LDXmHelpSystemDisplay\*O(3X),
\*LDXmHelpSystemOpen\*O(3X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
