.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmPrintWgtPrintJob.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/02 23:36:32 $
.\"
.TH DXmPrintWgtPrintJob 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmPrintWgtPrintJob\*O \- Submits files to the print service.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmPrintWgtPrintJob"
.sS
\*Lunsigned long int DXmPrintWgtPrintJob(\*Vprint_widget\*L, 
                         \*Vfilenames\*L, \*Vfilename_count\*L)
                   Widget         \*Vprint_widget\*L;
                   XmStringTable  \*Vfilenames\*L;
                   int            \*Vfilename_count\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vprint_widget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the print widget.
.LI "\*Vfilenames\*O"
The file names to be printed.
.LI "filename_count""
An integer that represents the number of file names.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmPrintWgtPrintJob\*O routine completes the submission of the
identified files to the appropriate print service and returns the success
of the print job to the application.
.bp
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
An integer that indicates the success or failure of the print job,
as follows:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Value@Description
.sp
_
.sp
0@Print job failed.
.sp
1@Print job was successful.
.sp
_
.TE
.EQ
delim off
.EN
