.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmPrintWgtAugmentList.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/02 21:57:03 $
.\" 
.\" 
.TH DXmPrintWgtAugmentList 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmPrintWgtAugmentList\*O \- Defines additional print formats and lets you add new options to the print widget option menus.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmPrintWgtAugmentList"
.sS
\*Lunsigned long int DXmPrintWgtAugmentList (\*Vpw\*L,\*Vlist\*L,\*Vdata\*L)
                   Widget     \*Vpw\*L;
                   int        \*Vlist\*L;
                   XtPointer  \*Vdata\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vpw\*O"
The print widget.
.LI "\*Vlist\*O"
The print formats or options, indicated by the following values:
.IP
.TS
.tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Value@Description
.sp
_
.sp
DXmFILE_BURST_SHEET@T{
Specifies the availability and frequency of printed File Burst Sheets.
T}
.sp
DXmFILE_END_SHEET@T{
Specifies the availability and frequency of printed File End Sheets.
T}
.sp
DXmFILE_START_SHEET@T{
Specifies the availability and frequency of printed File Start Sheets.
T}
.sp
DXmINPUT_TRAY@T{
Specifies the input tray holding the sheet to be used for the print job.
T}
.sp
DXmMESSAGE_LOG@T{
Specifies what is to be done with error messages generated during the
print operation.
T}
.sp
DXmOUTPUT_TRAY@T{
Specifies the output tray in which the sheet is to be placed.
T}
.sp
DXmPAGE_SIZE@T{
Specifies the size of the print image.
T}
.sp
DXmPRINT_FORMAT@T{
Specifies the print format.
T}
.sp
DXmSHEET_SIZE@T{
Specifies the size of the sheet.
T}
.sp
DXmSIDES@T{
Specifies how many sides of the sheet will be printed.
T}
.sp
_
.TE
.LI "\*Vdata\*O"
One of the following data structures:
.ML
.LI
\*LDXmPrintFormatStruct\*O, which has the following structure:
.IP
.oS
\*Ltypedef struct _DXmPrintFormatStruct\*L
{
     XmString   \*Vui_string\*L;
     XmString   \*Vos_string\*L;
     XmString   \*Vvar_string\*L;

} DXmPrintFormatStruct;\*O
.oE
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vui_string\*O"
Specifies the label displayed in the user interface.
.LI "\*Vos_string\*O"
Specifies a string that identifies the print format to
the operating system.
.LI "\*Vvar_string\*O"
Specifies the UNIX  environment variable that identifies the print format.
.LE
.LI
\*LDXmPrintOptionMenuStruct\*O,
which has the following structure:
.IP
.sS
\*Ltypedef struct _DXmPrintOptionMenuStruct
{
     XmString   \*Vui_string\*L;
     XmString   \*Vos_string\*L;

} DXmPrintOptionMenuStruct;
.sE
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vui_string\*O"
Specifies the label displayed in the user interface.
.LI "\*Vos_string\*O"
Specifies a string that identifies the print option for the operating system.
.LE
.LE
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmPrintWgtAugmentList\*O routine defines additional print formats
and lets you add new options to the print widget option menus.  Note that
the return value (an integer) is not required when adding print formats.
However, the Intrinsics routines \*LXtGetValues\*O and \*LXtSetValues\*O
use that integer when subsequent calls are made on the option menus.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
An integer that represents either the number of print formats
known to the print widget or the identifier of a new option added to the
print widget option menu, depending on the operation performed.  A Null
return indicates that the addition of a print format or option was
unsuccessful.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LDXmCreatePrintBox\*O(3X),
\*LDXmCreatePrintDialog\*O(3X),
\*LDXmPrintWgtPrintJob\*O(3X)
.PP
\*VX Window System Toolkit\*O
.br
\*VDECwindows Motif Guide to Application Programming\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
