.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnDisableDisplay.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/14 21:01:49 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnDisableDisplay 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnDisableDisplay\*O \- Temporarily disables the SVN widget from generating a display.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnDisableDisplay"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmSvnDisableDisplay (\*Vwidget\*L)
      Widget  \*Vwidget\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnDisableDisplay\*O routine allows your application to make
changes to the SVN widget without the user making additional changes.
For example, the \*LDXmSvnDisableDisplay\*O routine must be called
when the user has selected to either expand or collapse an entry in the
structure.  No further user actions will be processed (because the SVN widget
is temporarily disabled) until that expand or collapse operation has been
completed and the \*LDXmSvnEnableDisplay\*O routine has been called (which
re-enables the SVN widget and makes the changes visible to the user).
.PP
The kinds of changes that can be implemented while the widget is disabled
include the following:
.ML
.LI
Calling the \*LDXmSvnSelectAll\*O or \*LDXmSvnClearSelections\*O
routine to change selections
.LI
Calling the \*LDXmSvnAddEntries\*O or \*LDXmSvnDeleteEntries\*O
routine to change the underlying structure
.LI
Changing the appearance of an entry (adding highlighting or sensitivity,
for example)
.LE
.PP
This routine is required only when the changes are not in response to
an SVN callback.  (The SVN widget automatically disables the SVN widget
prior to issuing the callback and automatically enables the widget upon
return.)
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LDXmSvnEnableDisplay\*O(3X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
