.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnSelectComponent.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/08 17:33:21 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnSelectComponent 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnSelectComponent\*O \- Selects an entry using a specific component.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnSelectComponent"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmSvnSelectComponent (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Ventry\*L, \*Vcomp_number\*L)
      Widget  \*Vwidget\*L;
      int     \*Ventry\*L;
      int     \*Vcomp_number\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Ventry\*O"
An integer that represents the entry to select.
.LI "\*Vcomp_number\*O"
An integer that represents the component to select.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnSelectComponent\*O routine designates a specified entry as
selected.  It differs from the  \*LDXmSvnSelectEntry\*O routine because
it associates a specific component with the selection.  If the entry is
already selected with this component, this call has no effect.  Use this
routine when different selection modes are being used and make the call
in your application between calls to \*LDXmSvnDisableDisplay\*O and
\*LDXmSvnEnableDisplay\*O.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
