.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnSetEntryPosition.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/08 17:25:04 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnSetEntryPosition 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnSetEntryPosition\*O \- Sets the position of an entry in user-defined tree mode.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnSetEntryPosition"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmSvnSetEntryPosition (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Ventry\*L, \*Vmode\*L, \*Vx\*L, \*Vy\*L)
      kidget   \*Vwidget\*L;
      int      \*Ventry\*L;
      Boolean  \*Vmode\*L;
      int      \*Vx\*L;
      int      \*Vy\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Ventry\*O"
An integer that represents the number of the entry for which information
will be set or changed.
.LI "\*Vmode\*O"
A Boolean value that, when True, specifies that position information
returned should be interpreted relative to the upper-left corner of the
SVN window.  When False, the position information returned should be
interpreted relative internally to the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Vx\*O"
An integer that represents the \*Vx\*O position of the entry.  If the
value for \*Vmode\*O is True, the value for \*Vx\*O represents the
distance from the corner of the SVN window in pixels.  If the value
for \*Vmode\*O is False, the value for \*Vx\*O represents the position
in the entire tree, even though that position extends beyond the limit
of what can currently be displayed in the SVN window.
.LI "\*Vy\*O"
An integer that represents the \*Vy\*O position of the entry.  If the
value for \*Vmode\*O is True, the value for \*Vy\*O represents the
distance from the corner of the SVN window in pixels.  If the value for
\*Vmode\*O is False, the value for \*Vy\*O represents the position in
the entire tree, even though that position extends beyond the limit of
what can currently be displayed in the SVN window.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnSetEntryPosition\*O routine allows an application to implement
the layout of the tree when the tree style is \*LDXmSvnKuserDefinedTree\*O.
The application can explicitly position an entry, whether that entry
is currently visible in the display or not.  This call is valid only if
the display mode is set to \*LDXmSvnKdisplayTree\*O and the tree style to
\*LDXmSvnKuserDefinedTree\*O.  Make this call in your application between
calls to \*LDXmSvnDisableDisplay\*O and \*LDXmSvnEnableDisplay\*O.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
