.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnSetComponentTag.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/28 18:23:24 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnSetComponentTag 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnSetComponentTag\*O \- Sets the tag of a component.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnSetComponentTag"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmSvnSetComponentTag (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Vcomp_number\*L, \*Vtag\*L)
      Widget           \*Vwidget\*L;
      int              \*Vcomp_number\*L;
      XtPointer        \*Vtag\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Vcomp_number\*O"
An integer that represents the component number.
.LI "\*Vtag\*O"
A value that represents the tag.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnSetComponentTag\*O routine sets the widget level component
tag data.  (The SVN widget never examines this tag.) This tag may be lost
if the corresponding component is removed with the
\*LDXmSvnRemoveComponent\*O routine.
.PP
Use the \*LDXmSvnGetComponentTag\*O routine to retrieve the current value
of the tag; use the \*LDXmSvnGetComponentNumber\*O routine to return the
component number associated with the supplied tag.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
