.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnMapPosition.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/03 21:48:38 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnMapPosition 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnMapPosition\*O \- Associates the x and y position with an entry number.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnMapPosition"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmSvnMapPosition (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Vx\*L, \*Vy\*L, \*Ventry\*L, \*Vcomp_number\*L, \*Vtag\*L)
      Widget        \*Vwidget\*L;
      int           \*Vx\*L;
      int           \*Vy\*L;
      int           *\*Ventry\*L;
      int           *\*Vcomp_number\*L;
      XtPointer     *\*Vtag\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Vx\*O"
An integer that represents the \*Vx\*O position within the widget's
window where the mouse button was pressed or released.
.LI "\*Vy\*O"
An integer that represents the \*Vy\*O position within the widget's
window where the mouse button was pressed or released.
.LI "\*Ventry\*O"
A pointer to the entry number.
.LI "\*Vcomp_number\*O"
A pointer to the component number within the entry.  If the component
number is not needed, a Null pointer may be passed.
.LI "\*Vtag\*O"
A pointer to the application's tag associated with the entry.  If the
tag value is not required by the application, a Null pointer may be passed.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnMapPosition\*O routine uses a supplied \*Vx\*O and \*Vy\*O
coordinate to determine which entry the user was positioned over when
the mouse button was pressed or released.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
