.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnAutoScrollDisplay.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/14 20:22:58 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnAutoScrollDisplay 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnAutoScrollDisplay\*O \- Automatically scrolls the screen one unit based on the cursor position.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnAutoScrollDisplay"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmSvnAutoScrollDisplay (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Vx\*L, \*Vy\*L)
      Widget  \*Vwidget\*L;
      int     \*Vx\*L;
      int     \*Vy\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Vx\*O"
An integer that represents the current \*Vx\*O location of the cursor.
.LI "\*Vy\*O"
An integer that represents the current \*Vy\*O location of the cursor.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnAutoScrollDisplay\*O routine automatically scrolls the
screen one unit based on the current cursor location.  If the cursor is
not in a location that permits automatic scrolling, this call is ignored.
.PP
Use this routine if your application controls the dragging operations
(using the \*LDXmSvnSetApplDragging\*O routine).
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LDXmSvnSetApplDragging\*O(3X),
\*LDXmSvnAutoScrollCheck\*O(3X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
