.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnSetTreePosition.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/08 17:25:40 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnSetTreePosition 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnSetTreePosition\*O \- Sets the position of the tree in tree display mode.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnSetTreePosition"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmSvnSetTreePosition (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Vx\*L, \*Vy\*L)
      Widget  \*Vwidget\*L;
      int     \*Vx\*L;
      int     \*Vy\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Vx\*O"
An integer that represents the \*Vx\*O position for the tree.  This
value is obtained by a previous call to the DXmSvnGetTreePosition routine.
.LI "\*Vy\*O"
An integer that represents the \*Vy\*O position for tree.  This value is
obtained by a previous call to the \*LDXmSvnGetTreePosition\*O routine.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnSetTreePosition\*O routine enables applications to set the
exact position of the display from previously stored coordinates.  It is
valid to call this routine only when the \*LDXmSvnNdisplayMode\*O
resource is set to \*LDXmSvnKdisplayTree\*O.  (The \*LDXmSvnGetTreePosition\*O
routine retrieves the \*Vx\*O and \*Vy\*O coordinates from the SVN widget.)
.PP
Note that if the application does not currently have the exact same
characteristics (for example, the same mode, fonts, or size and number of
entries) as when the \*LDXmSvnGetPosition\*O routine was last called,
calling the \*LDXmSvnSetTreePosition\*O routine may generate an
incorrect display.
.PP
Make this call in your application between calls to \*LDXmSvnDisableDisplay\*O
and \*LDXmSvnEnableDisplay\*O.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
