.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnGetEntryPosition.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/08 16:24:37 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnGetEntryPosition 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnGetEntryPosition\*O \- Retrieves (returns) the position of an entry in the display.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnGetEntryPosition"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmSvnGetEntryPosition (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Ventry\*L, \*Vmode\*L, \*Vx\*L, \*Vy\*L)
      Widget   \*Vwidget\*L;
      int      \*Ventry\*L;
      Boolean  \*Vmode\*L;
      int      *\*Vx\*L;
      int      *\*Vy\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Ventry\*O"
An integer that represents the number of the entry for which position
information is required.
.LI "\*Vmode\*O"
A Boolean value that, when True, specifies that position information
returned is relative to the upper-left corner of the SVN window.  When
False, the position information returned is internal SVN information only
(for column and outline mode) or indicates the position of the entry in
the entire tree (tree mode).
.LI "\*Vx\*O"
A pointer to the \*Vx\*O position in the tree.
.LI "\*Vy\*O"
A pointer to the \*Vy\*O position in the tree.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnGetEntryPosition\*O routine allows an application to
determine the position of entries. The routine interprets the \*Vx\*O
and \*Vy\*O coordinates differently, depending on the application's mode:
.ML
.LI
Outline and Column mode
.IP
When the application is in outline or column mode (the
\*LDXMSvnNdisplayMode\*O resource has been set to either
\*LDXMSvnKdisplayOutline\*O or \*LDXMSvnKdisplayColumn )\*O
and \*Vmode\*O for the \*LDXmSvnGetEntryPosition\*O routine has been set
to True, the \*Vx\*O and \*Vy\*O coordinates indicate, in pixels, the
distance of the displayed entry from the upper-left corner of the SVN window.
.IP
However, if the specified entry is \*Vnot\*O visible in the SVN window,
the routine returns \-1 (an invalid value) for both the \*Vx\*O
and \*Vy\*O coordinates, because the SVN widget cannot determine the
position of such an entry when the application is in outline or column mode.
.IP
When \*Vmode\*O is False, the values returned for the \*Vx\*O and \*Vy\*O
coordinates are only meaningful internally to the SVN widget.
.LI
Tree mode
.IP
When the application is in tree mode (the \*LDXMSvnNdisplayMode\*O
resource is set to \*LDXMSvnKdisplayTree )\*O and the \*LDXMSvnNtreeStyle\*O
resource is set to \*LDXMSvnKuserDefinedTree\*O (the application controls
the format), the \*Vx\*O and \*Vy\*O coordinates indicate, in pixels,
the distance of the displayed entry from the upper-left corner of the
SVN window, when \*Vmode\*O is True.
.IP
If the entry is \*Vnot\*O visible in the SVN window, the \*Vmode\*O is
False.  However, in tree mode, the returned \*Vx\*O and \*Vy\*O coordinates
indicate the position of the entry in the entire tree, even though
that position extends beyond the limit of what can currently be displayed
in the SVN window.
.IP
Note that for position values to be valid, the SVN widget must have been
enabled prior to any changes made to the contents of the display.
.LE
.EQ
delim off
.EN
