.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnRemoveComponent.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/08 17:49:18 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnRemoveComponent 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnRemoveComponent\*O \- Removes a component from each SVN entry.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnRemoveComponent"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmSvnRemoveComponent (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Vcomp_number\*L)
      Widget  \*Vwidget\*L;
      int     \*Vcomp_number\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Vcomp_number\*O"
An integer that represents the component number to be removed.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnRemoveComponent\*O routine removes a new component for any entry
currently recognized by the SVN widget.  All entries that are currently
valid continue to be valid after the component is removed.
.PP
Note the following:
.ML
.LI
A warning message is generated if an attempt is made to remove a component
that is not within the range of the number of components in the entry
(for example, you cannot remove component 3 if there are only 2 components
in the entry).
.LI
During the remove operation, the corresponding tag and width values
for the component being removed are deleted from the widget's
component width and tag arrays.  Those values are discarded and cannot
be retrieved.
.LE
.EQ
delim off
.EN
