.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnSetComponentText.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/08 17:24:04 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnSetComponentText 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnSetComponentText\*O \- Adds a read-only component string to an entry.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnSetComponentText"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmSvnSetComponentText (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Ventry\*L, \*Vcomp_number\*L,
                            \*Vx\*L, \*Vy\*L, \*Vtext\*L, \*Vfont\*L)
      Widget       \*Vwidget\*L;
      int          \*Ventry\*L;
      int          \*Vcomp_number\*L;
      int          \*Vx\*L;
      int          \*Vy\*L;
      XmString     \*Vtext\*L;
      XmFontList   \*Vfont\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Ventry\*O"
An integer that represents the number of the entry that this component
belongs to.
.LI "\*Vcomp_number\*O"
An integer that represents the component number within the entry.
.LI "\*Vx\*O"
An integer that specifies the \*Vx\*O position of the component within
the entry.
.LI "\*Vy\*O"
An integer that specifies the \*Vy\*O position of the component within
the entry.  (Note that if you want the SVN widget to automatically create
a layout of the entry for you, set the value of this parameter to 0.)
.LI "\*Vtext\*O"
A compound string.
.LI "\*Vfont\*O"
A valid XmFontList.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnSetComponentText\*O routine sets a component of an entry to be
a read-only compound string.  Make this call in your application between
calls to \*LDXmSvnDisableDisplay\*O and \*LDXmSvnEnableDisplay\*O.
If your application passes 0 for the value of the \*Vy\*O offset, the
SVN widget will automatically create a layout of the entry.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
