.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnSetEntryIndexWindow.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/08 17:24:43 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnSetEntryIndexWindow 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnSetEntryIndexWindow\*O \- Controls whether the SVN widget displays the entry in the index window.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnSetEntryIndexWindow"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmSvnSetEntryIndexWindow (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Ventry\*L, \*Vindex\*L)
      Widget   \*Vwidget\*L;
      int      \*Ventry\*L;
      Boolean  \*Vindex\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Ventry\*O"
An integer that represents the number of the entry for which information
will be set or changed.
.LI "\*Vindex\*O"
A Boolean value that, when True, indicates that all of the entries being
added will be displayed either in the scroll index window when the user
drags the slider (in outline or column mode) or in the Navigation Window
(in tree mode).
.IP
If you set this argument to True, the \*LDXmNliveScrolling\*O resource
must be set to False.  Note as well that if the display mode is
\*LDXmSvnKdisplayTree\*O and you have set the \*LDXmSvnNTreeIndexAll\*O
resource to True, this specification will be overridden.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnSetEntryIndexWindow\*O routine enables an application to
respond to a \*LDXmSvnCRGetEntry\*O callback requesting the information
for an entry\*O.  It provides some of the functions of the
\*LDXmSvnSetEntry\*O routine, but only requires a subset of the information.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
