.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\" 
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnPositionDisplay.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/08 17:49:07 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnPositionDisplay 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnPositionDisplay\*O \- Displays a specified entry.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnPositionDisplay"
.sS
\*Lint DXmSvnPositionDisplay (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Ventry\*L, \*Vposition\*L)
     Widget  \*Vwidget\*L;
     int     \*Ventry\*L;
     int     \*Vposition\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Ventry\*O"
An integer that represents the number of the entry.
.LI "\*Vposition\*O"
The position of the entry, indicated by one of the following values:
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Value@Description
.sp
_
.sp
DXmSvnKpositionBottom@T{
The entry is positioned at the bottom of the display.
T}
.sp
DXmSvnKpositionTop@T{
The entry is positioned at the top of the display.
T}
.sp
DXmSvnKpositionMiddle@T{
The entry is positioned in the middle of the display.
T}
.sp
DXmSvnKpositionPreviousPage@T{
The entry is positioned on the page (display) of entries previously displayed.
T}
.sp
DXmSvnKpositionNextPage@T{
The entry is positioned on the page (display) of entries to be displayed next.
T}
.sp
_
.TE
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnPositionDisplay\*O routine ensures that the entries being
displayed contain a specified entry.  This routine allows the application to
position a particular entry at the top, middle, or bottom of the display
regardless of the number of entries being displayed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
An integer that returns as 1 (True).  The routine returns a value of 0
(False) only when the specified position of the entry is
\*LSvnPositionNextPage\*O and the user is already at the bottom of the
page (display).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
