.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnInsertComponent.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/08 17:48:38 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnInsertComponent 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnInsertComponent\*O \- Inserts a new component into each SVN entry.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnInsertComponentDA"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmSvnInsertComponent (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Vcomp_number\*L, \*Vwidth\*L, \*Vtag\*L)
      Widget        \*Vwidget\*L;
      int           \*Vcomp_number\*L;
      Dimension     \*Vwidth\*L;
      XtPointer     \*Vtag\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Vcomp_number\*O"
An integer that represents the component number to insert.
.LI "\*Vwidth\*O"
The width of the component.  This value will be inserted into the widget's
component width array.  You can set or examine this value by using the
\*LDXmSvnSetComponentWidth\*O and \*LDXmSvnGetComponentWidth\*O routines.
.LI "\*Vtag\*O"
The tag for the component. This value will be inserted into the widget's
component tag array.  You can set or examine this value by using the
\*LDXmSvnSetComponentTag\*O and \*LDXmSvnGetComponentTag\*O routines.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnInsertComponent\*O routine inserts a new component for each
entry currently recognized by the SVN widget. All entries that are currently
valid become invalid during this operation.
.PP
Note the following:
.ML
.LI
A warning message is generated if an attempt is made to insert a component
that is not the next in the sequence of components in the entry (for example,
you cannot add component 5 if there are only 3 components in the entry;
you must add component 4).
.LI
An entry can hold a maximum of 30 components.
.LE
.EQ
delim off
.EN
