.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnGetComponentWidth.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/08 16:23:58 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnGetComponentWidth 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnGetComponentWidth\*O \- Retrieves (returns) the width of a specified component.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnGetComponentWidth"
.sS
\*Lint DXmSvnGetComponentWidth (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Vcomp_number\*L)
     Widget  \*Vwidget\*L;
     int     \*Vcomp_number\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Vcomp_number\*O"
An integer that represents the component number.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnGetComponentWidth\*O routine is called whenever the application
requires the component width that is associated with a particular
component number.  You can set the value for the width by using the
\*LDXmSvnInsertComponent\*O or \*LDXmSvnSetComponentWidth\*O routine.
Note that the SVN widget automatically increases the width field whenever
it encounters a component that is wider than the current width value.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
An integer that represents the width of the component.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
