.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnSetComponentWidget.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/08 17:24:13 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnSetComponentWidget 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnSetComponentWidget\*O \- Adds an SVN subwidget component to an entry.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnSetComponentWidget"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmSvnSetComponentWidget (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Ventry\*L, \*Vcomp_number\*L, \*Vx\*L, \*Vy\*L, \*Vsubw\*L)
      Widget  \*Vwidget\*L;
      int     \*Ventry\*L;
      int     \*Vcomp_number\*L;
      int     \*Vx\*L;
      int     \*Vy\*L;
      Widget  \*Vsubw\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Ventry\*O"
An integer that represents the entry number that this component belongs to.
.LI "\*Vcomp_number\*O"
An integer that represents the component number within the entry.
.LI "\*Vx\*O"
An integer that represents the \*Vx\*O offset within the entry where
this component should be placed.
.LI "\*Vy\*O"
An integer that represents the \*Vy\*O offset within the entry where
this component should be placed.  (Note that if you want the SVN widget to
automatically create a layout of the entry for you, set the value of this
parameter to 0.)
.LI "\*Vsubw\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the subwidget.  This subwidget will be a
managed child of the SVN widget.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnSetComponentWidget\*O routine sets a component of an entry
to be a subwidget, which enables an application to put read-write text or a
push button in an entry.  The application is responsible for creating
this subwidget and destroying it when the entry is deleted.  If your
application passes 0 for the value of the \*Vy\*O offset, the SVN widget will
automatically create a layout of the entry.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
