.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnAutoScrollCheck.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/14 20:44:23 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnAutoScrollCheck 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnAutoScrollCheck\*O \- Controls whether the DxmSvnAutoScrollDisplay routine should be called.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnAutoScrollCheck"
.sS
\*Lint DXmSvnAutoScrollCheck (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Vx\*L, \*Vy\*L)
     Widget  \*Vwidget\*L;
     int     \*Vx\*L;
     int     \*Vy\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4,
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Vx\*O"
An integer that represents the \*Vx\*O location of the cursor relative to
the upper-left corner of the SVN window.
.LI "\*Vy\*O"
An integer that represents the \*Vy\*O location of the cursor relative
to the upper-left corner of the SVN window.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnAutoScrollCheck\*O routine determines whether the cursor is
currently in an area where automatic scrolling (initiated when the user moves
an entry outside the window) can occur.  This routine returns True if the
cursor is in such an area \*Vand\*O if there are no entries displayed in
that direction.  The application should call the \*LDXmSvnAutoScrollDisplay\*O
routine if this routine returns True.
.PP
Use this routine if your application controls the dragging operations
(using the \*LDXmSvnSetApplDragging\*O routine).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
An integer that indicates whether the \*LDxmSvnAutoScrollDisplay\*O
routine will be called, as follows:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Value@Description
.sp
_
.sp
0 (False)@T{
\*LDxmSvnAutoScrollDisplay\*O will not be called.
T}
.sp
1 (True)@T{
\*LDxmSvnAutoScrollDisplay\*O will be called.
T}
.sp
_
.TE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LDXmSvnSetApplDragging\*O(3X),
\*LDXmSvnAutoScrollDisplay\*O(3X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
