.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnGetComponentTag.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/27 21:26:18 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnGetComponentTag 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnGetComponentTag\*O \- Retrieves (returns) a component tag for a specified component number.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnGetComponentTag"
.sS
\*LXtPointer DXmSvnGetComponentTag (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Vcomp_number\*L)
     Widget        \*Vwidget\*L;
     unsigned int  \*Vcomp_number\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Vcomp_number\*O"
An integer that represents the component number.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnGetComponentTag routine retrieves (returns) a component tag\*O
for a specified component number whenever the application requires
that information. You can set the value for this tag by using the
\*LDXmSvnInsertComponent\*O or \*LDXmSvnSetComponentTag\*O routine.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
An XtPointer that represents the tag value (returns 0 if
the component tag has not been set).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
