.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnSetComponentWidth.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/08 17:24:24 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnSetComponentWidth 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnSetComponentWidth\*O \- Sets the width of a component.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnSetComponentWidth"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmSvnSetComponentWidth (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Vcomp_number\*L, \*Vwidth\*L)
      Widget     \*Vwidget\*L;
      int        \*Vcomp_number\*L;
      Dimension  \*Vwidth\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Vcomp_number\*O"
An integer that represents the component number.
.LI "\*Vwidth\*O"
The width to set.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnSetComponentWidth\*O routine sets the widget level component
width data.  This width is used only when the widget is displaying in
column mode. If a component found in this column is larger than the value
currently set, the component width is automatically adjusted (which makes
setting the component width optional).
.PP
New components inserted with the \*LDXmSvnInsertComponent\*O routine may
include the component width as a parameter to that routine.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
An integer that represents the width of the component.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
