.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnSetEntry.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/08 17:24:33 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnSetEntry 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnSetEntry\*O \- Provides the SVN widget with new entry level information.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnSetEntry"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmSvnSetEntry (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Ventry\*L, \*Vwidth\*L, \*Vheight\*L, \*Vnumber\*L, \*Vsens\*L,
                     \*Vtag\*L, \*Vindex\*L)
      Widget        \*Vwidget\*L;
      int           \*Ventry\*L;
      int           \*Vwidth\*L;
      int           \*Vheight\*L;
      int           \*Vnumber\*L;
      Boolean       \*Vsens\*L;
      XtPointer     \*Vtag\*L;
      Boolean       \*Vindex\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Ventry\*O"
An integer that represents the number of the entry for which information
will be set or changed.
.LI "\*Vwidth\*O"
An integer that represents the width of the entry.  This value is used to
allocate sufficient display space for the entry.  If 0 is specified, the
SVN widget will calculate the width based on the components and font.
.LI "\*Vheight\*O"
An integer that represents the height of the entry.  This value is used to
allocate sufficient display space for the entry.  If 0 is specified,
the SVN widget will calculate the height based on the components and font.
.LI "\*Vnumber\*O"
An integer that represents the number of components in this entry.
.LI "\*Vsens\*O"
A Boolean value that, when True, makes this entry sensitive (the user
can select it). When False, the display for that entry will be dimmed to
indicate that the entry is not sensitive (the user cannot select it).
.LI "\*Vtag\*O"
The value that the application will associate with the entry.  This value
is returned in all callbacks that set the \*Ventry_number\*O field in the
\*LDXmSvnCallback\*O structure.
.LI "\*Vindex\*O"
A Boolean value that, when True, indicates that all of the entries being added
should be displayed in the scroll index window when the user drags the slider.
Note that if you set this argument to True, the \*LDXmNliveScrolling\*O
resource must be set to False.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnSetEntry\*O routine enables an application to respond to a
\*LDXmSvnCRGetEntry\*O callback requesting the information for an entry.
You can specify a subset of the information allowed on this call by
using the following routines:
.ML
.LI
\*LDXmSvnSetEntryNumComponents\*O
.LI
\*LDXmSvnSetEntryTag\*O
.LI
\*LDXmSvnSetEntryIndexWindow\*O
.LI
\*LDXmSvnSetEntrySensitivity\*O
.LI
\*LDXmSvnSetEntry \*O
.LE
.PP
Make this call in your application between calls to \*LDXmSvnDisableDisplay\*O
and \*LDXmSvnEnableDisplay\*O.  After making a call to this routine,
your application should call the \*LDXmSvnSetComponentText\*O,
\*LDXmSvnSetComponentPixmap\*O, and \*LDXmSvnSetComponentWidget\*O
routines to individually supply the component information.
.PP
Note that if your application calls the \*LDXmSvnSetEntry\*O routine to
modify an existing entry and the number of entries changes, all previous
component information is discarded.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
