.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnSetEntryNumComponents.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/08 17:24:53 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnSetEntryNumComponents 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnSetEntryNumComponents\*O \- Provides the SVN widget with the number of components for an entry.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnSetEntryNumComponents"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmSvnSetEntryNumComponents (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Ventry\*L, \*Vnumber\*L)
      Widget  \*Vwidget\*L;
      int     \*Ventry\*L;
      int     \*Vnumber\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Ventry\*O"
An integer that represents the number of the entry for which information
will be set or changed.
.LI "\*Vnumber\*O"
An integer that represents the number of components that make up this entry.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnSetEntryNumComponents\*O routine enables an application to
respond to a \*LDXmSvnCRGetEntry\*O callback requesting information for
an entry.  It provides some of the functions of the \*LDXmSvnSetEntry\*O
routine, but requires only a subset of the information.
.PP
Make this call in your application between calls to \*LDXmSvnDisableDisplay\*O
and \*LDXmSvnEnableDisplay\*O.  After making a call to this routine,
the application should call the \*LDXmSvnSetComponentText\*O,
\*LDXmSvnSetComponentPixmap\*O, and \*LDXmSvnSetComponentWidget\*O
routines to individually supply component information.
.PP
Note that if the number of entries changes, all previous component
information is discarded.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
