.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnGetEntrySensitivity.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/08 16:24:46 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnGetEntrySensitivity 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnGetEntrySensitivity\*O \- Retrieves (returns) the sensitivity of an entry in the display.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnGetEntrySensitivity"
.sS
\*Lint DXmSvnGetEntrySensitivity (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Ventry\*L)
     Widget  \*Vwidget\*L;
     int     \*Ventry\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Ventry\*O"
An integer that represents the entry number.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnGetEntrySensitivity\*O routine returns the sensitivity
state (which indicates whether the user can select an entry)
whenever the application requires that information for a given entry.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
An integer that represents the entry sensitivity value, as follows:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Value@Description
.sp
_
.sp
0@T{
The entry is not sensitive (the user cannot select it).
T}
.sp
1@T{
The entry is sensitive (the user can select it).
T}
.sp
_
.TE
.EQ
delim off
.EN
