.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnGetComponentNumber.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/27 21:26:15 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnGetComponentNumber 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnGetComponentNumber\*O \- Retrieves (returns) the component number containing a supplied tag value.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnGetComponentNumber"
.sS
\*Lint DXmSvnGetComponentNumber (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Vtag\*L)
     Widget     \*Vwidget\*L;
     XtPointer  \*Vtag\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Vtag\*O"
A value that represents the component tag.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnGetComponentNumber\*O routine is called whenever the
application requires the component number that is associated with a
particular tag value.  If the specified tag value is not found, then
a value of 0 is returned.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
An XtPointer that represents the component number (returns 0 if
the supplied tag value is not found).
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LDXmSvnSetComponentTag\*O(3X),
\*LDXmSvnInsertComponent\*O(3X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
