.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnGetDisplayed.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/08 16:24:08 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnGetDisplayed 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnGetDisplayed\*O \- Retrieves (returns) displayed entry numbers and related information necessary to draw a corresponding display.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnGetDisplayed"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmSvnGetDisplayed (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Ventries\*L, \*Vtags\*L, \*Vys\*L, \*Vlen\*L)
      Widget        \*Vwidget\*L;
      int           *\*Ventries\*L();
      XtPointer     *\*Vtags\*L();
      int           *\*Vys\*L();
      int           \*Vlen\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Ventries\*O"
A pointer to an array of integers to receive the entry numbers of the
entries being displayed.
.LI "\*Vtags\*O"
A pointer to an array of longwords to receive the application's
\*Ventry_tag\*O value for each entry displayed.  If tags are not
required, a Null pointer may be passed.
.LI "\*Vys\*O"
A pointer to an array of longwords to receive the \*Vy\*O coordinates for
each entry displayed.  If \*Vy\*O coordinates are not required,
a Null pointer can be passed.
.LI "\*Vlen\*O"
The number of entries allocated in the provided array.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnGetDisplayed\*O routine returns information about the
entries that the SVN widget is currently displaying.  This information can
then be used to keep a simultaneous display up to date with the SVN
widget window (in the case of a dialog box, for example, which might
contain totals for the entries being displayed).
.PP
The application is responsible for managing the memory used to return
this list of entries.  As such, note the following:
.ML
.LI
At the minimum, the number of entries in the array should be capable of
holding at least the number of entries indicated by the value returned
from the \*LDXmSvnGetNumDisplayed\*O routine.
.LI
If there are more entries in the array than the application will need,
the SVN widget will set the value for those extra entries to 0.
.LI
If the capacity of the arrays passed is less than the number of
selected entries, only the number of entries allocated in the provided
array (the value for \*Vlen\*O) will be returned.
.LE
.EQ
delim off
.EN
