.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnGetTreePosition.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/08 16:26:17 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnGetTreePosition 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnGetTreePosition\*O \- Retrieves (returns) the position of the display window for future use.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnGetTreePosition"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmSvnGetTreePosition (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Vx\*L, \*Vy\*L)
      Widget  \*Vwidget\*L;
      int     *\*Vx\*L;
      int     *\*Vy\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Vx\*O"
A pointer to the \*Vx\*O position in the tree.
.LI "\*Vy\*O"
A pointer to the \*Vy\*O position in the tree.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnGetTreePosition\*O routine obtains the upper-left coordinate
position of the display window that is within the virtual display.
It thus provides a way for applications to determine the exact position
of the display window so that window can be restored at a later time
(using the \*LDXmSvnSetTreePosition\*O routine).
.PP
The application can call this routine \*Vonly\*O when the
\*LDXmSvnNdisplayMode\*O resource is set to \*LDXmSvnKdisplayTree\*O.
Note as well that the \*Vx\*O and \*Vy\*O coordinates returned are only
meaningful internally to the SVN widget (they are used by the
\*LDXmSvnSetTreePosition\*O routine when the SVN widget restores the
display window to its original position).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
