.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnDeleteEntries.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/08 17:47:17 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnDeleteEntries 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnDeleteEntries\*O \- Deletes entries from the structure.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnDeleteEntries"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmSvnDeleteEntries (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Vafter\*L, \*Vcount\*L)
      Widget  \*Vwidget\*L;
      int     \*Vafter\*L;
      int     \*Vcount\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Vafter\*O"
An integer that represents the entry number after which a specified
number of entries are to be deleted.
.LI "\*Vcount\*O"
An integer that represents the number of entries to delete from the array.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnDeleteEntries\*O routine enables an application to
process the removal (collapse) of an entry.  This routine specifies how
many entries to delete and after which entry those deletions should
begin. Make this call in your application between calls to
\*LDXmSvnDisableDisplay\*O and \*LDXmSvnEnableDisplay\*O.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
