.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnSetEntryTag.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/14 21:31:44 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnSetEntryTag 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnSetEntryTag\*O \- Assigns an entry tag to a specified entry.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnSetEntryTag"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmSvnSetEntryTag (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Ventry\*L, \*Vtag\*L)
      Widget        \*Vwidget\*L;
      int           \*Ventry\*L;
      XtPointer     \*Vtag\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Ventry\*O"
An integer that represents the number of the entry for which information
will be set or changed.
.LI "\*Vtag\*O"
A value that the application will associate with this entry.  This value
is returned in all callbacks that set the \*Ventry_number\*O field in
the \*LDXmSvnCallback\*O structure.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnSetEntryTag\*O routine assigns an entry tag to a specified
entry, enabling an application to respond to a \*LDXmSvnNgetEntryCallback\*O
callback requesting information about that entry.  The function of this
routine is similar to the \*LDXmSvnSetEntry\*O routine but is more limited
in scope, requiring only a subset of the information you would specify
for the \*LDXmSvnSetEntry\*O routine.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LDXmSvnSetEntry\*O(3X),
\*LDXmCreateSvn\*O(3X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
