.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnSetEntrySensitivity.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/08 17:25:16 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnSetEntrySensitivity 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnSetEntrySensitivity\*O \- Controls whether the user can select a particular entry.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnSetEntrySensitivity"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmSvnSetEntrySensitivity (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Ventry\*L, \*Vsens\*L)
      Widget   \*Vwidget\*L;
      int      \*Ventry\*L;
      Boolean  \*Vsens\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Ventry\*O"
An integer that represents the number of the entry whose sensitivity will
be set or changed.
.LI "\*Vsens\*O"
A Boolean value that, when True, means the entry is sensitive (the user
can select it). If the value is False, the SVN widget will dim the display
of the entry to indicate that the entry is not sensitive (the user cannot
select it).
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnSetEntrySensitivity\*O routine changes the sensitivity
of an entry ("sensitivity" means whether the SVN widget will allow the
user to select a particular entry).  When using this routine, note the
following:
.ML
.LI
Make the call in your application between calls to \*LDXmSvnDisableDisplay\*O
and \*LDXmSvnEnableDisplay\*O.
.LI
If the newly specified sensitivity is the same as the current sensitivity,
the call is ignored.
.LI
If the newly specified sensitivity for the entry is different from the
current sensitivity, that entry is redisplayed if necessary.
.LI
If an entry is being changed to no longer be sensitive (the user cannot
select the entry) \*Vand\*O that entry is currently selected, the entry
will be cleared (cancelled) and then redisplayed.
.LE
.EQ
delim off
.EN
