.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnSetComponentHidden.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/08 17:23:35 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnSetComponentHidden 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnSetComponentHidden\*O \- Controls which modes the SVN widget uses to display a particular component.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnSetComponentHidden"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmSvnSetComponentHidden (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Ventry\*L, \*Vcomp_number\*L, \*Vmode\*L)
      Widget  \*Vwidget\*L;
      int     \*Ventry\*L;
      int     \*Vcomp_number\*L;
      int     \*Vmode\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Ventry\*O"
An integer that represents the number of the entry for which information
is to be set or changed.
.LI "\*Vcomp_number\*O"
An integer that represents the number of the component for which
information is to be set or changed.  This cannot be a component of the
type \*VWidget\*O.
.LI "\*Vmode\*O"
The display mode in which this component should not be displayed, indicated
by one of the following values:
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp
Value@Description
.sp
_
.sp
DXmSvnKdisplayNone@T{
Display in all modes (hidden in none).
T}
.sp
DXmSvnKdisplayOutline@T{
Do not display in outline mode.
T}
.sp
DXmSvnKdisplayTree@T{
Do not display in tree mode.
T}
.sp
DXmSvnKdisplayAllModes@T{
Do not display in outline, tree, or column mode.
T}
.sp
DXmSvnKdisplayColumns@T{
Do not display in column mode.
T}
.sp
_
.TE
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnSetComponentHidden\*O routine enables an application to
prevent a component (excluding subwidgets) from being displayed in a
particular mode, thus making that component "hidden".  By default,
components are visible in all modes.  However, you can use this routine
to prevent a component from displaying in one mode (outline, tree, or
column) or all modes.
.PP
Using this routine can reduce the amount of information displayed
when the application is in tree mode, making the application
less complex and easier to use. This routine is also useful if you want
your application to display different icons in each of the two modes.
.PP
Make this call in your application between calls to
\*LDXmSvnDisableDisplay\*O and \*LDXmSvnEnableDisplay\*O.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
