.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: DXmSvnAddEntries.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/08 17:46:08 $
.\"
.TH DXmSvnAddEntries 3X
.SH NAME
\*LDXmSvnAddEntries\*O \- Opens new entries in the structure.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "DXmSvnAddEntries"
.sS
\*Lvoid DXmSvnAddEntries (\*Vwidget\*L, \*Vafter\*L, \*Vcount\*L, \*Vlevel\*L, \*Vtags\*L, \*Vindex\*L)
      Widget   \*Vwidget\*L;
      int      \*Vafter\*L;
      int      \*Vcount\*L;
      int      \*Vlevel\*L;
      XtPointer*     \*Vtags\*L();
      Boolean  \*Vindex\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
The identifier (widget ID) of the SVN widget.
.LI "\*Vafter\*O"
An integer that represents the entry number that the newly opened
positions are inserted after. (If you want to add an entry before
number 1, set this parameter to 0.)
.LI "\*Vcount\*O"
An integer that represents the number of entries to add to the array.
.LI "\*Vlevel\*O"
An integer that represents the level number of the entries being added.
A level number of 0 indicates top-level entries.
.LI "\*Vtags\*O"
A pointer to an array of longwords that contain the tag values for each
entry being added.  If the tag values are not being used, a Null pointer
may be passed.  This value can also be changed with either the
\*LDXmSvnSetEntry\*O or \*LDXmSvnSetEntryTag\*O routine call.
.LI "\*Vindex\*O"
A Boolean value that, when True, indicates that all of the entries being
added should appear in the scroll index window when the user drags the
slider.  This value can be changed with either the \*LDXmSvnSetEntry\*O
or \*LDXmSvnSetEntryIndexWindow\*O routine.  Note that the index window
is used only when the \*LDXmNliveScrolling\*O resource is set to False.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*LDXmSvnAddEntries\*O routine enables an application to process
the expansion of an entry.  The value supplied for \*Vcount\*O determines
how many entries the application should open.  The actual text of the
entry is not passed.
.PP
The first time an entry is displayed to the user, the SVN widget issues the
\*LDXmSvnNgetEntryCallback\*O to obtain information about the entry.
If the user never positions the window in an area where a particular entry
is visible, the callback will never be made.  Make this call in your
application between calls to \*LDXmSvnDisableDisplay\*O and
\*LDXmSvnEnableDisplay\*O.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
