.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: end.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/15 02:45:01 $
.\" 
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright Unpublished, MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.  All Rights |
.\" | Reserved.  This software contains proprietary and confidential |
.\" | information of MIPS and its suppliers.  Use, disclosure or     |
.\" | reproduction is prohibited without the prior express written   |
.\" | consent of MIPS.                                               |
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Header: /usr/doc/osf1doc/refpages/rcs/src/BASE/DEC/man3/end.3,v 3.2.6.3 1994/01/15 02:45:01 Joyce_Demers Exp $
.TH end 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lend\*O, \*Letext\*O, \*Ledata\*O, \*Leprol\*O, \*L_ftext\*O, \*L_fdata\*O, \*L_fbss\*O, \*L_procedure_table\*O, \*L_procedure_table_size\*O, \*L_procedure_string_table\*O \- locations in program, runtime procedure table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.nL
\*Lextern _end;
.nL
extern _etext;
.nL
extern _edata;
.nL
extern eprol;
.nL
extern _ftext;
.nL
extern _fdata;
.nL
extern _fbss;
.nL
extern _procedure_table;
.nL
extern _procedure_table_size;
.nL
extern _procedure_string_table;
.nL
\*OThe following synopsis is for DEC OSF/1.
.nL
\*Lextern unsigned long _end;
.nL
extern unsigned long _etext;
.nL
extern unsigned long _edata;
.nL
extern unsigned long eprol;
.nL
extern unsigned long _ftext;
.nL
extern unsigned long _fdata;
.nL
extern unsigned long _fbss;
.nL
extern unsigned long _procedure_table;
.nL
extern unsigned long _procedure_table_size;
.nL
extern unsigned long _procedure_string_table;
.nL
extern unsigned long __istart;
.nL
extern unsigned long __fstart;\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "end routine"
These names refer neither to routines nor to locations with interesting
contents except for \*L_procedure_table\*O,
\*L_procedure_string_table\*O,
and for
DEC OSF/1,
\*L__istart\*O and \*L__fstart\*O.
Except for \*Leprol\*O,
these are all names of loader defined symbols.  The address of
\*L_etext\*O is the first address above the program text,
\*L_edata\*O is above the initialized data region,
\*L_end\*O is above the uninitialized data region, and
\*Leprol\*O is the first instruction of the user's program
that follows the runtime startup routine.
.PP
When execution begins, the program break coincides with
\*L_end\*O,
but it is reset by the routines \*Lbrk\*O(2), \*Lmalloc\*O(3), standard
input/output (see \*Lstdio\*O(3S)), the profile
(\*L\-p\*O) option of \*Lcc\*O(1), etc.
The current value of the program break is reliably returned by
"\*Lsbrk\*O(0)", (see \*Lbrk\*O(2)).
.PP
The loader defined symbols
\*L_procedure_table\*O, \*L_procedure_table_size\*O, and
\*L_procedure_string_table\*O
refer to the data structures of the runtime procedure table.  Since these are
loader defined symbols the data structures are built by \*Lld\*O(1)
only if they are referenced.  See the include file \*Lsym.h\*O
for the definition of the runtime procedure table and see the include file
\*Lexception.h\*O for its uses.
.PP
The symbol
\*L_procedure_table_size\*O is absolute symbol.  The value of the symbol is its
address (that is, "\*L&_procedure_table_size\*O").
Any reference to the symbol itself will attempt to access the symbol's value
as if it were a valid address.  This will most likely result in an access
violation.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lbrk\*O(2), \*Lmalloc\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
