.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: endhostent.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/13 16:55:53 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH endhostent 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lendhostent\*O, \*Lendhostent_r\*O \- Ends retrieval of network host entries
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <netdb.h>
.PP
\*Lvoid endhostent ( void );
.PP
\*Lvoid endhostent_r\*O (\*L
.nL
        \*Lstruct hostent_data \*V*host_data\*O);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vhost_data"
\*OIs data for the hosts database.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "endhostent function"
.iX "endhostent_r function"
.iX "host entries" "ending retrieval of "
The \*Lendhostent(\|)\*O function closes the \*L/etc/hosts
\*Ofile, previously opened with the
\*Lgethostentbyaddr\*O(\|) or
\*Lgethostentbyname\*O(\|) function.
.\" Adding Environment Note.
.PP
The \*Lendhostent_r(\|)\*O function is the reentrant
version of the \*Lendhostent(\|)\*O function.
The \*Lnetdb.h\*O header file defines the
\*Lhostent\*O and \*Lhostent_data\*O structures.
.PP
The system searches either the local \*L/etc/hosts\*O file or one of the
files distributed by BIND or NIS for the requested information.
To determine which file or files to search, and
in which order, the system uses the switches in the \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O file.
.SH NOTES
.PP
If the most recent \*Lsethostent(\|)\*O function
has been performed with a nonzero parameter,
then the \*Lendhostent(\|)\*O function will \*Vnot\*O
close the \*L/etc/hosts\*O file.
In this instance, the \*L/etc/hosts \*Ofile
is not closed until a call to the \*Lexit(\|)\*O function.
A second \*Lsethostent(\|)\*O
function must be issued with a parameter equal to
0 (zero) in order to ensure that a following \*Lendhostent(\|)\*O
function will succeed.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/hosts\*O"
\*OContains
the hostname database.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgethostbyaddr\*O(3),
\*Lgethostbyname\*O(3),
\*Lgethostent\*O(3),
\*Lsethostent\*O(3)
.iX "endhostent function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
