.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: endprotoent.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/13 17:18:21 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH endprotoent 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lendprotoent\*O, \*Lendprotoent_r\*O \- Close the \*L/etc/protocols\*O file
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <netdb.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lvoid endprotoent(void);
.sp 0.4v
\*Lvoid endprotoent_r(
.nL
        \*Lstruct protoent_data *\*Vproto_data\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vproto_data\*O"
Is data for the protocol database.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "endprotoent function"
.iX "endprotoent_r function"
.iX "protocols file" "closing"
The \*Lendprotoent(\|)\*O function closes
the \*L/etc/protocols\*O file, previously opened with the
\*Lgetprotoent(\|)\*O, \*Lgetprotobyname(\|)\*O, or\*L
getprotobynumber(\|)\*O function.
.PP
The \*Lendprotoent_r(\|)\*O function is the reentrant version of the
\*Lendprotoent(\|)\*O function.  The
\*Lnetdb.h\*O header file defines the \*Lprotoent_data\*O structure.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note
The system searches either the local \*L/etc/protocols\*O file or the
NIS distributed networks file for the requested information.
To determine which file or files to search, and
in which order, the system uses the switches in
the \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O file.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH NOTES
.PP
If the most recent \*Lsetprotent(\|)\*O function
has been performed with a nonzero parameter,
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Fixed spelling of 'endprotoent' per QAR 6104.
then the \*Lendprotoent(\|)\*O function will \*Vnot\*O
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
close the \*L/etc/protocols\*O file.
In this instance, the \*L/etc/protocols \*Ofile
is not closed until a call to the \*Lexit(\|)\*O function.
A second \*Lsetprotent(\|)\*O
call must be issued with a parameter equal to
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Fixed spelling of 'endprotoent' per QAR 6104.
0 (zero) in order to ensure that a following \*Lendprotoent(\|)\*O
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
function will succeed.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetprotoent\*O(3),
\*Lgetprotobynumber\*O(3),
\*Lgetprotobyname\*O(3),
\*Lsetprotoent\*O(3).
.iX "endprotoent function"
.iX "endprotoent_r function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
