.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: endservent.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/13 17:28:59 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH endservent 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lendservent\*O, \*Lendservent_r\*O \- Close the \*L/etc/services\*O file.
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <netdb.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lvoid endservent(void);
.sp 0.4v
\*Lvoid endservent_r(
.nL
	\*Lstruct servent_data *\*Vserv_data\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vserv_data\*O"
Is data for services' database.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "endservent function"
.iX "endservent_r function"
.iX "services file" "closing"
The \*Lendservent(\|)\*O function closes
the \*L/etc/services\*O file, previously opened with
the \*Lgetservent(\|)\*O,
\*Lgetservbyname(\|)\*O,
or \*Lgetsrvbyport\*O  function.
.PP
The \*Lendservent_r(\|)\*O function is the reentrant version of the
\*Lendservent(\|)\*O function.  The
\*Lnetdb.h\*O header file defines the \*Lservent_data\*O structure.
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
The system searches either the local \*L/etc/services\*O file or the
NIS distributed networks file for the requested information.
To determine which file or files to search, and
in which order, the system uses the switches in
the \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O file.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH NOTES
.PP
If the most recent \*Lsetservent(\|)\*O function was performed with a nonzero
parameter, a subsequent \*Lendservent(\|)\*O function will not close the
\*L/etc/services\*O file.
.\" According to D. Long, these functions return nothing.
.\".SH RETURN VALUES
.\".PP
.\"Upon successful completion, the \*Lendservent_r(\|)\*O function
.\"returns a 0 (zero).  Upon
.\"failure, a -1 is returned if any
.\"parameters are NULL, and \*Lerrno\*O may be set to [EINVAL].
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lendservent_r(\|)\*O function fails, \*Lerrno\*O may be set
to:
.VL
.LI "EINVAL"
If \*Vserv_data\*O is NULL.
.LE
.\" commented out to pass tman 6/27/93 .++
.SH FILES
.PP
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/services\*O"
\*OContains
service names.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetservent\*O(3),
\*Lgetservbyname\*O(3),
\*Lgetservbyport\*O(3),
\*Lsetservent\*O(3).
.iX "endservent function"
.iX "endservent_r function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
