.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH fattach 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lfattach\*O - Attaches a STREAMS-based file descriptor to an object in the file system name space
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library \*L(libc.a)\*O
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lint fattach(
.nL
	int \*Vfd\*L,
.nL
	const char *\*Vpath\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vfd\*O"
Specifies an open STREAMS-based file descriptor that is valid.
.LI "\*Vpath\*O"
Specifies the pathname of an existing object.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "attach a file descriptor"
.iX "fattach function"
The \*Lfattach\*O(\|) function attaches the \*Vfd\*O file descriptor
to an object in the file system name space
(designated by \*Vpath\*O).  A
file descriptor can be attached to more than one node
in the file system name space. In other words, a file is allowed to
have several associated names.
Until that file is detached from the node (with the \*Lfdetach(\|)\*O
function), any later operations on \*Vpath\*O will affect that
file.
.PP
The attached file's attributes (see the \*Lstat\*O(\|) reference page)
are set according to the following scheme:
.ML
.LI
The group ID, user ID, times, and permissions are set to those of \*Vpath\*O.
.LI
The size as well as the device identifier are set to those of the
file device designated by the \*Vfd\*O parameter.
Note that although the attributes of the attached file may change (see the
\*Lchmod\*O(\|) reference page), the underlying object's attributes
will not change accordingly.
.LI
The number of links is set to 1.
.LE
.PP
The \*Lfattach\*O(\|) function is similar to the \*Lmount\*O function.
Rather than mounting a file system on a mount point, the
\*Lfattach\*O(\|) function mounts a file descriptor on a mount point which may
be a directory or a file.
.\".LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lfattach\*O(\|) function returns a
value of 0 (zero). Otherwise, it returns a value of -1, and \*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occurs, the \*Lfattach(\|)\*O function sets
\*Lerrno\*O to the value that corresponds to the condition.
.PP
.VL
.LI "[EACCES]"
Although the user is the owner of \*Vpath\*O, the user has no write
permissions for it, or the object designated by \*Vfd\*O is locked.
.LI "[EBADF]"
The \*Vfd\*O parameter is an invalid file descriptor.
.LI "[EBUSY]"
The existing object specified by the \*Vpath\*O
parameter is already mounted or has a file descriptor
attached to it.
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The
\*Vpath\*O
parameter points to a location
outside of the allocated address space of the process.
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vfd\*O parameter refers to a socket.
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The superblock for the file system had an incorrect magic
number or an out of range block size.
.LI "[ELOOP]"
When \*Vpath\*O was translated, too many symbolic links were found.
.LI "[EMFILE]"
There are too many file descriptors attached (system-wide).
.LI "[ENOENT]"
The pathname of an existing object specified by the \*Vpath\*O
parameter does not exist or is an empty string.
.LI "[ENOMEM]"
The system resources have been exhausted.
.LI "[ENOTDIR]"
The directory portion of the \*Vpath\*O parameter does not exist.
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]"
The size of a pathname component is longer than NAME_MAX when
_POSIX_NO_TRUNC is in effect, or the pathname length is longer
than PATH_MAX.
.LI "[EPERM]"
The current effective user ID is not the owner of the existing object
specified by the \*Vpath\*O parameter. Another cause
of the error is if the current effective user ID does not specify a
user with the correct privileges.
.LE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The \*Lfattach\*O() function requires that the \*LFFM_FS\*O kernel option
be configured.  See \*ESystem Administration\*O for information on configuring
kernel options.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lfdetach\*O(3), \*Lisastream\*O(3), \*Lchmod\*O(2),
\*Lstat\*O(2), \*Lmount\*O(3).
.PP
Commands: \*Lfdetach\*O(8).
.PP
Interfaces: \*Lstreamio\*O(7).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
