.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: fdetach.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/27 20:50:46 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH fdetach 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lfdetach\*O \- Detaches a file name from a STREAMS-based file descriptor
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library \*L(libc.a)\*O
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lint fdetach(
.nL
	const char *\*Vpath\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vpath\*O"
Specifies the pathname of an existing object in the file system name
space that was previously attached (see the \*Lfattach\*O() reference page).
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "fdetach function"
.iX "detach a name from a file descriptor"
The \*Lfdetach\*O(\|) function separates (detaches) a STREAMS-based file
descriptor from a name in the file system designated by \*Vpath\*O.
As a result of this
operation, the node's status and permissions return to the state prior
to the file attaching to the node.  Any later operations on \*Vpath\*O
will affect only the
file system node and not the attached file.
The user must either have the proper permissions to allow access to
the file, or own
the file.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lfdetach\*O(\|) function returns a
value of 0 (zero). Otherwise, it returns a value of -1 is returned, and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occurs, the \*Lfdetach(\|)\*O function sets
\*Lerrno\*O to the value that corresponds to the condition.
.VL
.LI "[EBUSY]"
There is an active reference to a file located
on the file system.
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The
\*Vpath\*O parameter points outside the process's allocated address space.
.LI "[EACCESS]"
The user is not the owner of the file or does not have the correct
permissions to access the file.
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The object pointed to by the \*Vpath\*O parameter
is not attached to a file.
.LI "[ELOOP]"
When \*Vpath\*O was translated, too many symbolic links were found.
.LI "[ENOENT]"
The
\*Vpath\*O
parameter points to a pathname that does not exist.
.LI "[ENOTDIR]"
The directory portion of the \*Vpath\*O parameter does not exist.
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]"
The size of a pathname component is longer than [NAME_MAX] when
[_POSIX_NO_TRUNC] is in effect, or the pathname length is longer
than [PATH_MAX].
.LI "[EPERM]"
The current effective user ID is not the owner of the existing object
specified by the \*Vpath\*O parameter, or
the current effective user ID does not specify a
user with the correct privileges.
.LE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The \*Lfdetach\*O() function requires that the \*LFFM_FS\*O kernel option
be configured.  See \*ESystem Administration\*O for information on configuring
kernel options.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lfattach\*O(3),
\*Lisastream\*O(3),
\*Lumount\*O(3).
.PP
Commands: \*Lfdetach\*O(8).
.PP
Interfaces: \*Lstreamio\*O(7).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
