.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ferror.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/23 19:32:24 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH ferror 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lferror\*O - Tests the error indicator on a stream
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <stdio.h>
.PP
\*Lint ferror(
.nL
        FILE *\*Vstream\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vstream\*O"
Specifies the input or output stream.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ferror macro"
.iX "stream" "testing error indicator on"
The \*Lferror(\|)\*O function tests whether input/output errors have
occurred on the specified stream.  The \*Lferror(\|)\*O function may be
a macro (depending on compile-time definitions). See the
\*LNOTES\*O section for more information.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Lferror(\|)\*O function may be a macro
(depending on the compile-time definitions used in the source).
Consequently, you cannot use this interface where a function is
necessary; for example, a subroutine
pointer cannot point to it.
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If an I/O error occurred when reading from or writing
to the stream specified by the \*Vstream\*O parameter, a nonzero
value is returned.  Otherwise, a value of 0 (zero) is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lfopen\*O(3),
\*Lfeof\*O(3),
\*Lfileno\*O(3),
\*Lclearerr\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
