.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: fgetws.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/21 19:13:38 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.\"
.TH fgetws 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lfgetws\*O \- Get a string from a stream
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <wchar.h>
.nL
.\" wchar_t *getws(
.\" .nL
.\"	wchar_t *\*Vstring\*L);
.\" .nL
.\" .sp .4v
wchar_t *fgetws(
.nL
	wchar_t *\*Vstring\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vnumber\*L,
.nL
	FILE *\*Vstream\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vstring"
\*OPoints to a string to receive characters.
.LI "\*Vstream"
\*OPoints to the \*LFILE\*O structure of an
open file.
.LI "\*Vnumber"
\*OSpecifies an upper bound on the number of characters to
read.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\" .iX "getws function"
.iX "fgetws function"
.iX "stream" "getting a string from"
.iX "string" "getting from a stream"
.\" The \*Lgetws(\|)\*O function reads characters from the standard
.\" input stream, \*Lstdin\*O, converts them into the corresponding wide
.\" character codes, and stores them into the \*Lwchar_t\*O array pointed by
.\" by the \*Vstring\*O parameter. The \*Lgetws(\|)\*O function reads
.\" characters until it reads a newline character or encounters the end of
.\" file. It discards the newline character and writes a null wide
.\" character immediately after the last character stored in the
.\" \*Vstring\*O array.
.\" .PP
The \*Lfgetws(\|)\*O function reads characters from the stream, converts
them into the corresponding wide character codes, and stores them in
the \*Lwchar_t\*O array pointed to by the \*Vstring\*O parameter. It
reads until \*Vnumber\*O-1 characters have been read, it has read and
stored in the buffer the '\en' newline character, or it has
encountered the end of file condition. It appends a null wide
character code to \*Vstring\*O.
.PP
.\" These functions parallel the \*Lgets(\|)\*O
.\" and
This function parallels the
\*Lfgets(\|)\*O
.\" functions.
function.
.\" .SH CAUTIONS
.\" .PP
.\" The \*Lgetws(\|)\*O function does not check the input for a maximum
.\" size. Consequently, if more characters are entered than will fit in
.\" the space allocated for the \*Vstring\*O parameter, \*Lgetws(\|)\*O
.\" will write beyond the end of the allocated space, producing
.\" indeterminate results. To avoid this condition, you should use
.\" \*Lfgetws(\|)\*O instead of
.\" \*Lgetws(\|)\*O. 
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If the end of the file is encountered and no characters were
read, no characters are transferred to the \*Vstring\*O parameter
and a null pointer is returned. If a read error occurs or the function
cannot convert the character to a wide character code, a NULL
pointer is returned. Otherwise, \*Vstring\*O is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.\" If any of the following conditions occur, the \*Lgetws(\|)\*O and
If any of the following conditions occur, the \*Lfgetws(\|)\*O
.\" functions fail and set \*Lerrno\*O to the
function fails and sets \*Lerrno\*O to the
corresponding value.
.VL
.LI "[EILSEQ]"
The data obtained from \*Lstdin\*O or the stream did not contain valid
characters in the current locale.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lclearerr\*O(3),
\*Lfeof\*O(3),
\*Lferror\*O(3),
\*Lfileno\*O(3),
\*Lfopen\*O(3),
\*Lfputws\*O(3),
\*Lfread\*O(3),
\*Lgetc\*O(3),
\*Lgets\*O(3),
\*Lgetwc\*O(3),
\*Lmbtowc\*O(3),
\*Lputs\*O(3),
.\" \*Lputws\*O(3),
\*Lscanf\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
