.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: fileno.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/23 19:41:09 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH fileno 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lfileno\*O \- Maps a stream pointer to a file descriptor
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <stdio.h>
.PP
\*Lint fileno(
.nL
        FILE *\*Vstream\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vstream\*O"
Specifies the input stream.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "fileno macro"
.iX "stream" "mapping pointer to file descriptor"
The \*Lfileno(\|)\*O function returns the file descriptor of a stream.
The \*Lfileno(\|)\*O function may be
a macro (depending on compile-time definitions). See the
\*LNOTES\*O section for more information.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Lfileno(\|)\*O function may be a macro
(depending on the compile-time definitions used in the source).
Consequently, you cannot use this interface where a function is
necessary; for example, a subroutine pointer cannot point to the
interface.
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lfileno(\|)\*O macro returns the
file descriptor associated with the \*Vstream\*O parameter.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lclearerr\*O(3),
\*Lfdopen\*O(3),
\*Lfeof\*O(3),
\*Lferror\*O(3),
\*Lfopen\*O(3),
\*Lopen\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
