.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: flockfile.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/11/09 20:57:09 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Fixed coding per QAR 7913 and tman.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.\"
.TH flockfile 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lflockfile\*O \- Locks a \*Lstdio\*O stream
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Locks Library (\*Llibc_r.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <stdio.h>\*O
.nL
\*Lvoid flockfile\*O(
.nL
    \*LFILE * \*Vfile\*O );\*L
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP 
.VL .5i
.LI "\*Vfile\*O"
Specifies the stream to be locked.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "flockfile function"
.iX "stream" "locking stdio"
The
\*Lflockfile(\|)\*O
function locks a
\*Lstdio\*O
stream so that a thread can have exclusive use of that stream for
multiple I/O operations.  Use the
\*Lflockfile(\|)\*O
function for a thread that wishes to
ensure that the output of several
\*Lprintf(\|)\*O
functions,
for example, is not garbled by another thread also trying to use
\*Lprintf(\|)\*O.
.PP 
Matching
\*Lflockfile(\|)\*O
and
\*Lfunlockfile(\|)\*O
calls can be nested.
.PP 
The behavior
of the
\*Lflockfile(\|)\*O
function is unspecified if the
\*Vfile\*O
parameter
does not point to a valid
\*AFILE
structure.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lfunlockfile\*O(3),
\*Lunlocked_getc\*O(3),
\*Lunlocked_putc\*O(3)
.iX "flockfile function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
