.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: fnmatch.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/21 19:14:33 $
.\"
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH fnmatch 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lfnmatch\*O \- Matches filename patterns
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include\ <fnmatch.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint fnmatch(
.nL
	const char * \*Vpattern\*L,
.nL
	\*Lconst char *\*O \*Vstring\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vflags\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 1i
.LI "\*Vpattern\*O"
Contains the pattern to which the \*Vstring\*O parameter is to be compared.
.LI "\*Vstring\*O"
Contains the string to be compared against the \*Vpattern\*O parameter.
.LI "\*Vflags\*O"
Contains a bit flag specifying the configurable
attributes of the comparison to be performed by the \*Lfnmatch\*O function.
.LE
.PP
\*OThe \*Vflags\*O parameter modifies the interpretation of the \*Vpattern\*O
and \*Vstring\*O parameters. It is the bitwise inclusive OR (\*L|\*O)
of 0 (zero) or more of
the following flags, which are defined in the \*Lfnmatch.h\*O file.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LFNM_PATHNAME\*O"
Slash in the \*Vstring\*O parameter only
matches slash in the \*Vpattern\*O parameter.
.LI "\*LFNM_PERIOD\*O"
Leading period in the \*Vstring\*O parameter
must be exactly matched by period in the \*Vpattern\*O parameter.
.\" .zA "defect, 7707, R1.1.2, replaced flag"
.LI "\*LFNM_NOESCAPE\*O"
Unless \*LFNM_NOESCAPE\*O is set, preceding a character in
\*Vpattern\*O with a \*L\e\*O (backslash character) causes
\*Lfnmatch(\|)\*O to match that character in \*Vstring\*O.
For example, \*L\e\*O\*L\e\*O matches a
backslash in \*Vstring\*O.  If \*LFNM_NOESCAPE\*O is set,
\*L\e\*O (backslash) is interpreted as an ordinary character.
.\" .zZ "defect, 7707, R1.1.2, replaced flag"
.LE
.PP
If the \*LFNM_PATHNAME\*O flag is set in the \*Vflags\*O
parameter, a \*L/\*O (slash) in the \*Vstring\*O parameter
is explicitly matched by a \*L/\*O in the \*Vpattern\*O parameter.
It is not matched by either the \*L*\*O (asterisk) or \*L?\*O
(question-mark) special characters, nor by a bracket expression.
If the \*LFNM_PATHNAME\*O flag is not set, the \*L/\*O is treated
as an ordinary character.
.PP
\*OIf \*LFNM_PERIOD\*O is set in the \*Vflags\*O parameter,
then a leading period in the \*Vstring\*O parameter only matches
a period in the \*Vpattern\*O parameter; it is not matched by either
the asterisk or question-mark special characters, nor by a bracket
expression. A period is determined to be leading according to the
setting of the \*LFNM_PATHNAME\*O flag, according to the following rules:
.ML
.LI
If the \*LFNM_PATHNAME\*O flag is set, a period is leading
only if it is the first character in the \*Vstring\*O parameter
or if it immediately follows a slash.
.LI
If the \*LFNM_PATH_NAME\*O flag is not set,  a period is leading
only if it is the first character of the \*Vstring\*O parameter.
If \*LFNM_PERIOD\*O is not set, no special restrictions are placed
on matching a period.
.LE
.PP
.\" .zA "defect, 7707, R1.1.2, replaced flag"
A \*L\\\*O (backslash character) quotes the next character, unless
\*LFNM_NOESCAPE\*O is set.  If \*LFNM_NOESCAPE\*O is set,
\*L\\\*O (backslash) is treated as itself.
.\" .zZ "defect, 7707, R1.1.2, replaced flag"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "fnmatch function"
.iX "file name patterns" "matching"
The \*Lfnmatch(\|)\*O function checks the string specified by
the \*Vstring\*O parameter to see if it matches the pattern specified
by the \*Vpattern\*O parameter.  This routine follows the match
criteria of the \*Lglob(\|)\*O function.
.PP
The \*Lfnmatch\*O function is useful when a program needs to perform
pattern matching, such as when a directory is to be searched for a
particular string (as is the case with the \*Lfind\*O command).  A
program like the \*Lpax\*O command can also use the \*Lfnmatch(\|)\*O
function to perform its pattern matching operations.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If the value in the \*Vstring \*Oparameter matches the pattern
specified by the \*Vpattern\*O parameter, then the \*Lfnmatch(\|)\*O function
returns zero. If there is no match, the \*Lfnmatch(\|)\*O function returns
\*LFNM_NOMATCH\*O, which is defined in the \*Lfnmatch.h\*O file. If an error
occurs, the \*Lfnmatch(\|)\*O function returns a nonzero value.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lglob\*O(3), \*Lglobfree\*O(3), \*Lregcomp\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
