.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: fputws.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/21 19:15:34 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.\"
.TH fputws 3
.SH NAME
.PP
fputws\*O \- Write a string to a stream
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard I/O Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <wchar.h>
.sp 0.4v
.\" int putws(
.\" .nL
.\" 	wchar_t *\*Vstring\*L);
.sp 0.4v
int fputws(
.nL
	wchar_t *\*Vstring\*L,
.nL
	FILE *\*Vstream\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vstring"
\*OPoints to a string to be written to output.
.LI "\*Vstream"
\*OPoints to the \*LFILE\*O structure of an open
file.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\" .iX "putws function"
.iX "fputws function"
.iX "writing out a string"
.PP
.\" \*OThe \*Lputws(\|)\*O function writes the \*Lwchar_t\*O string
.\" pointed to by the \*Vstring\*O parameter to the standard output
.\" stream, \*Lstdout\*O. Each wide character is converted to the
.\" equivalent multibyte character.
.\" In all other respects, \*Lputws(\|)\*O
.\" functions like \*Lputs(\|)\*O.
.\" .PP 
The \*Lfputws(\|)\*O function writes the \*Lwchar_t\*O string
pointed to by the \*Vstring\*O parameter to the output stream.
Again, each element of the \*Vstring\*O parameter is converted to the
equivalent multibyte character.
In all other respects, \*Lfputws(\|)\*O functions like \*Lfputs(\|)\*O.
.PP
.\" These functions parallel the \*Lputs(\|)\*O and
This function parallels the
\*Lfputs(\|)\*O
.\" functions.
function.
.PP
The \*Lst_ctime\*O and \*Lst_mtime\*O
fields of the file are marked for update between the successful
execution of the
.\" \*Lputws(\|)\*O or
\*Lfputws(\|)\*O
function,
and the next successful completion of a call to the
\*Lfflush(\|)\*O or \*Lfclose(\|)\*O function
on the same stream, or a call to the
\*Lexit(\|)\*O or \*Labort(\|)\*O function.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
.\" Upon successful completion, the \*Lputws(\|)\*O and \*Lfputws(\|)\*O 
.\" functions return the number of characters written. Both subroutines
.\" return EOF on an error. 
Upon successful completion, the \*Lfputws(\|)\*O function returns the
number of characters written. The function returns EOF on an error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occur,
.\" the \*Lputws(\|)\*O and \*Lfputws(\|)\*O functions set \*Lerrno\*O to
the \*Lfputws(\|)\*O function sets \*Lerrno\*O to
the corresponding value.
.VL
.LI "[EAGAIN]"
The \*LO_NONBLOCK\*O flag is set for the file descriptor
underlying \*Vstream\*O
and the process would be delayed in the write operation.
.LI "[EBADF]"
The file descriptor underlying \*Vstream\*O
is not a valid file descriptor open for writing.
.LI "[EFBIG]"
An attempt was made to write to a file that exceeds the
process's file size limit or the maximum file size.
.LI "[EINTR]"
The read operation was interrupted by a signal that was caught,
and no data was transferred.
.LI "[EIO]"
The implementation supports job control; the process is a member
of a background process group attempting to write to its
controlling terminal; \*LTOSTOP\*O is set; the process is neither ignoring nor
blocking \*LSIGTTOU\*O; and the process group of the process is
orphaned.
.LI "[ENOSPC]"
There was no free space remaining on the device containing
the file.
.LI "[EPIPE]"
An attempt was made to write to a pipe or FIFO that is not open
for reading by any process.
A \*LSIGPIPE\*O signal will also be sent to the process.
.LI "[EILSEQ]"
The wide character code specified by the \*Vc\*O parameter does not
correspond to a valid character.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lfgetws\*O(3),
\*Lgets\*O(3),
.\" \*Lgetws\*O(3),
\*Lwcstombs\*O(3),
\*Lprintf\*O(3),
\*Lputc\*O(3),
\*Lputs\*O(3),
\*Lputwc\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
