.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ftok.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 15:16:15 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH ftok 3
.SH NAME
\*Lftok\*O \- Generates a standard interprocess communication key
.SH LIBRARY
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.nL
#include <sys/ipc.h>
.PP
key_t ftok (
.nL
	char *\*Vpath_name\*L,
.nL
	char \*Vproject_id \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vpath_name"
\*OSpecifies the pathname of an existing file that is accessible
to the process.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vproject_id" 
\*OSpecifies a character that uniquely identifies a project.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "ftok function"
.iX "interprocess communication key" "generating"
.PP 
The \*Lftok(\|)\*O function returns a key, based on the
\*Vpath_name\*O and \*Vproject_id\*O parameters, to be used to obtain interprocess
communication identifiers.
The \*Lftok(\|)\*O function returns the
same key for linked files if called with the same \*Vproject_id\*O parameter.
Different keys are returned for the same file if different\*V project_id\*O
parameters are used.
.PP 
Interprocess communication facilities require you to supply
a key to the \*Lmsgget(\|)\*O, \*Lsemget(\|)\*O,
and \*Lshmget(\|)\*O functions in order to obtain interprocess communication
identifiers. The \*Lftok(\|)\*O function provides one method of creating
keys, but many others are possible.  For example,
you can use the project ID as the most significant byte of the key,
and use the remaining portion as a sequence number.
.SH CAUTION
It is important for each installation to define
standards for forming keys. If some standard is not adhered to, it
is possible for unrelated processes to interfere with each other's
operation.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the \*Lftok(\|)\*O function returns
a key that can be passed to the \*Lmsgget(\|)\*O, \*Lsemget(\|)\*O,
or\*L shmget(\|)\*O function. The \*Lftok(\|)\*O function
returns the value \*L(key_t)\*O-1 if any of the following
are true:
.\"from TP 4"  
.\" bullet list under TP ! " 
.ML
.LI 
\*OThe file named by the \*Vpath_name\*O parameter does not exist.
.\"from TP "  
.\" bullet list under TP ! " 
.LI 
\*OThe file named by the \*Vpath_name\*O parameter is not accessible
to the process.
.\"from TP "  
.\" bullet list under TP ! " 
.LI 
\*OThe \*Vproject_id\*O parameter is 0 (zero) or the null string ('').
.LE 
.PP 
If the \*Vpath_name\*O parameter of the \*Lftok(\|)\*O
function names a file that has been removed while keys still
refer to it, then the \*Lftok(\|)\*O function returns an error.  If
that file is then recreated, the \*Lftok(\|)\*O function may
return a different key than the original one.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lmsgget\*O(2),
\*Lsemget\*O(2),
\*Lshmget\*O(2)
.iX "ftok function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
