.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: funlockfile.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 15:16:54 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH funlockfile 3
.SH NAME
\*Lfunlockfile\*O \- Unlocks a \*Lstdio\*O stream
.SH LIBRARY
Reentrant Library (\*Llibc_r.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <stdio.h>\*O
.nL
\*Lvoid funlockfile\*O(
.nL
	\*LFILE * \*Vfile\*O);\*L
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP 
.\"from TP .5i"  
.VL .5i
.LI "\*Vfile\*O"
Specifies the stream to be unlocked.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "funlockfile function"
.iX "stream" "unlocking stdio"
.PP 
The
\*Lfunlockfile(\|)\*O
function unlocks a
\*Lstdio\*O
stream, causing the thread that
had been holding the lock to relinquish exclusive use of the stream.
.PP 
Matching
\*Lflockfile(\|)\*O
and
\*Lfunlockfile(\|)\*O
calls can be nested.
If the stream has been locked recursively, then it will remain locked
until the last matching
\*Lfunlockfile(\|)\*O
is called.
.PP 
Behavior is unspecified if the
\*Vfile\*O
parameter
is not pointer to a valid
\*AFILE\*O
structure.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lflockfile\*O(3),
\*Lunlocked_getc\*O(3),
\*Lunlocked_putc\*O(3)
.iX "funlockfile function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
