.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getcwd.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/17 11:17:39 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
...\"
...\"
.TH getcwd 3
.SH NAME
\*Lgetcwd\*O - Gets the pathname of the current directory
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.\" Relocate index hits, comment out .wH macro
.iX "getcwd function"
.iX "directory" "returning pathname of current"
.\" .wH .rS
.\" End Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lchar *getcwd (
.nL
	char *\*Vbuffer\*L,
.nL
	size_t \*Vsize \*L);
.sE
.sp
System V Compatibility [Digital Only]
.sp
.sS
\*Lchar *getcwd (
.nL
	char *\*Vbuffer\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vsize \*L);
.sE
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" In the preceding syntax line, "int" was replaced by "size_t"
.\" in response to QAR 3917 to comply with POSIX 1990 specifications.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH PARAMETERS
.VL
.LI "\*Vbuffer"
\*OPoints to a string space to hold the pathname.
If the \*Vbuffer\*O parameter is a null pointer, the \*Lgetcwd(\|)\*O
function, using the \*Lmalloc(\|)\*O function, obtains the
number of bytes of free space as specified by the \*Vsize\*O parameter.
In this case, the pointer returned by the \*Lgetcwd(\|)\*O function
can be used as the parameter in a subsequent call to the \*Lfree(\|)\*O function.
...\"from TP "
.LI "\*Vsize"
\*OSpecifies the length of the string space in bytes.  The value of
the \*Vsize\*O
parameter must be at least the length of the pathname to be returned plus
one byte for the terminating null.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lgetcwd(\|)\*O function returns a pointer to a string containing
the pathname of the current directory.
The \*Lgetwd(\|)\*O function is called
to obtain the pathname.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The
\*Lgetcwd(\|)\*O
function is supported for multi-threaded applications.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the
\*Vbuffer\*O
parameter is returned.
Otherwise, a null value
is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate
the error.
.P
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the
\*Lgetcwd(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
...\"from TP 1i"
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The
\*Vsize\*O
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Removed "or negative" from this line per QAR 3917 for POSIX 1990.
parameter is zero.
.\" End Digital-specific information
...\"from TP 1i"
.LI "[ERANGE]"
The
\*Vsize\*O
parameter is greater than zero, but is smaller than the length of the
pathname + 1.
...\"from TP "
.LI "[ENOMEM]"
The requested amount of memory could not be allocated.
.sp
System V Compatibility [Digital Only]
.sp
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vsize\*O parameter is less than or equal to zero.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lmalloc\*O(3),
\*Lgetwd\*O(3)
.iX "getcwd function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
