.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getch.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/15 18:45:17 $
.\"
.TH getch 3
.SH NAME
\*Lgetch\*O, \*Lmvgetch\*O, \*Lmvwgetch\*O, \*Lwgetch\*O \- Read a character
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O

\*Lint getch(\|)\*O

\*Lint wgetch(\*Vwin\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L;\*O

\*Lint mvgetch(\*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L)
    int \*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L;\*O

\*Lint mvwgetch(\*Vwin\*L, \*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L;
    int \*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getch macro"
.iX "mvgetch macro"
.iX "mvwgetch macro"
.iX "wgetch subroutine"
The \*Lgetch\*O routine reads a character from the
terminal associated with the default window.
.PP
The \*Lwgetch\*O routine reads a character from
the terminal associated with the specified window.
.PP
The routine \*Lmvgetch\*O reads a character from
the terminal associated with the default window at the specified
position.
.PP
The routine \*Lmvwgetch\*O reads a character from
the terminal associated with the specified
window at the specified position.
.PP
The following information applies to all the routines.
In \*Lnodelay\*O mode, if there is no input waiting, the integer
\*LERR\*O is returned.  In \*Ldelay\*O mode,
the program waits until the system passes text through to the program.
Usually the program will restart after one character or
after the first newline, but this depends on how \*Lcbreak\*O
is set.  The character will be echoed on the designated window unless
\*Lnoecho\*O has been set.
.PP
If \*Lkeypad\*O is \*LTRUE\*O and a function key is
pressed, the token for that function
key is returned instead of the raw characters.
Possible function keys are defined in the
<curses.h> header file with integers beginning with 0401.
The function key names begin with \*LKEY_\*O.
.PP
If a character is received that could be the beginning of a
function key (such as escape), \*Lcurses\*O sets a timer.
If the remainder of the sequence does not come within the
designated time, the character will be passed through;
otherwise the function key value is returned.
Consequently, there may be a delay after a user presses the
escape key before the escape is returned to the program.
.PP
Using the escape key for a single character function is
discouraged.
.PP
The routines \*Lgetch\*O, \*Lmvgetch\*O, and \*Lmvwgetch\*O
are macros.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lgetch\*O, \*Lmvgetch\*O,
and \*Lwgetch\*O functions return the character read.
.PP
If delay mode is in effect and no data is available, ERR is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lcbreak\*O(3), \*Lkeypad\*O(3), \*Lnodelay\*O(3), \*Lnoecho\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
