.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getc.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/29 19:07:28 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH getc 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetc\*O, \*Lfgetc\*O, \*Lgetc_unlocked\*O, \*Lgetchar\*O, \*Lgetchar_unlocked\*O, \*Lgetw\*O \- Get a character or word from an input stream
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <stdio.h>
.PP
\*Lint getc(
.nL
        \*LFILE \(**\*Vstream\*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint fgetc(
.nL
        \*LFILE *\*Vstream\*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint getc_unlocked\*O(
.nL
        \*LFILE * \*Vstream\*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint getchar(void);\*O
.PP
\*Lint getchar_unlocked(void);\*O
.PP
\*Lint getw(
.nL
        \*LFILE *\*Vstream\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vstream\*O"
Points to the file structure of an open file.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getc function"
.iX "fgetc function"
.iX "getchar function"
.iX "getw function"
.iX "getc_unlocked function"
.iX "getchar_unlocked function"
.iX "input stream" "getting character from"
.iX "input stream" "getting word from"
The \*Lgetc(\|)\*O function  returns the next byte from the input specified
by the \*Vstream\*O parameter and moves the file pointer, if defined,
ahead one byte in\*V stream\*O. The \*Lgetc(\|)\*O function may be
a macro (depending on compile-time definitions). See the
\*LNOTES\*O section for more information.
.PP
The \*Lfgetc(\|)\*O function performs the same function as
\*Lgetc(\|)\*O.
.PP
The \*Lgetchar(\|)\*O function returns the next byte from \*Lstdin\*O,
the standard input stream. Note that \*Lgetchar(\|)\*O can also be a macro.
.PP
The reentrant versions of these functions are all locked against
multiple threads calling them simultaneously.  This will incur an
overhead to ensure integrity of the stream. The unlocked versions of
these calls, \*Lgetc_unlocked(\|)\*O and \*Lgetchar_unlocked(\|)\*O
may be used to avoid the overhead. The \*Lgetc_unlocked(\|)\*O
and \*Lgetchar_unlocked(\|)\*O functions are functionally identical to the
\*Lgetc(\|)\*O and \*Lgetchar(\|)\*O functions, except that
\*Lgetc_unlocked(\|)\*O and \*Lgetchar_unlocked(\|)\*O
may be safely used only within a scope that
is protected by the \*Lflockfile(\|)\*O and \*Lfunlockfile(\|)\*O functions
used as a pair.
The caller must ensure that the stream is locked before these
functions are used. The \*Lgetc(\|)\*O and \*Lgetchar(\|)\*O
functions can also be macros.
.PP
The \*Lgetw(\|)\*O function returns the next word (\*Lint\*O) from
the input specified by the \*Vstream\*O parameter and increments
the associated file pointer, if defined, to point to the next \*Lint\*O.
The size of an \*Lint\*O varies from one machine architecture to another.
The \*Lgetw(\|)\*O function returns the constant \*LEOF\*O at
the end of the file or when an error occurs. Since \*LEOF\*O is
a valid integer value, the \*Lfeof(\|)\*O and \*Lferror(\|)\*O functions
can be used to check the success of \*Lgetw(\|)\*O. The \*Lgetw(\|)\*O
function assumes no special alignment in the file.
.PP
Because of possible differences in \*Lint\*O length and byte ordering
from one machine architecture to another, files
written using the \*Lputw(\|)\*O
subroutine are machine dependent and may not be readable using \*Lgetw(\|)\*O
on a different type of processor.
.SH NOTES
.VL
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use (\*Lgetc(\|)\*O,
\*Lfgetc(\|)\*O,
\*Lgetchar(\|)\*O).
.nL
Trial use (\*Lgetw(\|)\*O).
.LE
.ne 2i
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
These functions and macros return the integer constant \*LEOF\*O
at the end of the file or upon an error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occur, the
\*fgetc(\|)\*O, \*Lgetc(\|)\*O, \*Lgetc_unlocked(\|)\*O, \*Lgetchar(\|)\*O,
\*Lgetchar_unlocked(\|)\*O, and \*Lgetw(\|)\*O functions set
\*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.VL
.LI "[EAGAIN]"
The \*LO_NONBLOCK\*O flag is set for the underlying \*Vstream\*O and
the process would be delayed by the read operation.
.LI "[EBADF]"
The file descriptor underlying the \*Vstream\*O is not a valid file
descriptor or is not open for reading.
.LI "[EINTR]"
The read operation was interrupted by a signal which was caught and no
data was transferred.
.LI "[EIO]"
The call is attempting to read from the process's controlling terminal
and either the process is ignoring or blocking the \*LSIGTTIN\*O
signal or the process group is orphaned.
.LI "[ENOMEM]"
Insufficient memory is available for the operation.
.LI "[ENXIO]"
Device associated with \*Vstream\*O does not exist.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lflockfile\*O(3),
\*Lfunlockfile\*O(3),
\*Lgets\*O(3),
\*Lgetwc\*O(3),
\*Lputc\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
