.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getdate.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.5.8 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 17:16:49 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH getdate 3
.SH NAME
\*Lgetdate\*O \- Converts formatted string into time/date structure
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include<time.h>\*O
.nL
\*Lextern int getdate_err;\*O
.sp 0.4v
\*Lstruct tm *getdate(
.nL
	char *\*Vstring\*L);\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lstruct tm *getdate_r(
.nL
	char *\*Vstring\*L,\*O
.nL
	\*Lstruct tm *\*Vptr\*L,
.nL
	int *\*Vgetdate_err\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.VL
.LI "\*Vstring\*O"
Points to the user-definable date and/or time specifications.
.LI "\*Vptr\*O"
Points to a time structure.
.LI "\*Vgetdate_err\*O"
Points to the local \*Vgetdate_err\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "getdate function"
.iX "getdate_r function"
.iX "format date and time"
.iX "date and time format"
.PP
The \*Lgetdate(\|)\*O function fills a \*Lstruct tm\*O based on a
combination of the supplied string argument
and the template file of allowable formats for that argument.
.PP
The template file is obtained from the DATEMSK environment variable.
As the pathname is passed to \*Lfopen(\|)\*O, it must either be a fully
qualified pathname, or must refer to a file in the current directory
whenever \*Lgetdate(\|)\*O is called.
.PP
The template file is read line by line, and each line is parsed against
the argument string in an attempt to make a match.  All comparisons are
made without regard to case insensitive.  A matching template
line will result in a valid \*Lstruct tm\*O being filled in and returned.  In
the event that no match is found, an error is returned in \*Lgetdate_err\*O.
.PP
Each line of the template file provides a possible format to match
against the input string.  The format is specified by combining special
time/date specifier characters preceded by \*L%\*O to indicate the
particular time/date functions desired.  The specifiers are listed
below.
.VL
.LI "\*LSpecifier\*O"
\*LResult matched in argument string\*O
.LI "\*L%\&%\&\*O"
Literal \*L%\*O character
.LI "\*L%a\*O"
Abbreviated day of the week
.LI "\*L%A\*O"
Full name of the day of the week
.LI "\*L%b\*O"
Abbreviated month of the year
.LI "\*L%B\*O"
Full name of the month of the year
.LI "\*L%c\*O"
Locale's appropriate date and time representation
.LI "\*L%d\*O"
Month day 1 through 31, with optional leading zero
.LI "\*L%D\*O"
Date string formatted as \*L%m\*O/\*L%d\*O/\*L%y\*O
.LI "\*L%e\*O"
Month day 1 through 31, with optional leading zero
.LI "\*L%h\*O"
Abbreviated month of the year
.LI "\*L%H\*O"
Hour 00 through 24
.LI "\*L%I\*O"
Hour 01 through 12
.LI "\*L%m\*O"
Month 01 through 12
.LI "\*L%M\*O"
Minute 00 through 59
.LI "\*L%S\*O"
Second 00 through 59
.LI "\*L%n\*O"
Literal newline character \*L\en\*O
.LI "\*L%p\*O"
Locale's AM or PM string
.LI "\*L%R\*O"
Time formatted as \*L%H\*O:\*L%M\*O
.LI "\*L%r\*O"
Time formatted as \*L%I\*O:\*L%M\*O:\*L%S\*O \*L%p\*O
.LI "\*L%t\*O"
Whitespace up through literal tab
.LI "\*L%T\*O"
Time formatted as \*L%H\*O:\*L%M\*O:\*L%S\*O
.LI "\*L%w\*O"
Weekday number, Sunday as zero through Saturday as 6
.LI "\*L%x\*O"
Date formatted as specified by locale
.LI "\*L%X\*O"
Time formatted as specified by locale
.LI "\*L%y\*O"
Year of century 00 through 99
.LI "\*L%Y\*O"
Year formatted 19\*L%y\*O
.LI "\*L%Z\*O"
Time Zone (if any)
.LE
.PP
If the \*Vstring\*O parameter specifies the date and time
incompletely, the following rules apply:
.AL
.LI
The \*Ltm\*O structure is initially filled in with the current date and
time.
.LI
If a year is specified alone, the remainder of the date defaults
to January 1.
.LI
If a month is specified without a day of the month or day of the
week, the next month matching that month is used, starting with
the current month.  The year advances if the matching month is beyond
the current year.  The day of the month defaults to the 1st.
.LI
If a day of the week is specified, the next date matching that day
is used, starting with the current day.  The month advances if
the matching day is beyond the end of the current month.  The year may
advance similarly.
.LI
In cases 2, 3 and 4, the time of day is not altered unless it is
explicitly specified.  If time alone is specified, the date defaults
to today (the current day), unless the time specified is earlier than
now (the current time), in which case the date defaults to tomorrow.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lgetdate(\|)\*O function returns a
pointer to a \*Lstruct tm\*O. Otherwise, NULL is returned and the
external variable \*Lgetdate_err\*O is set to indicate the error.
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lgetdate_r\*O function returns
pointer \*Lstruct tm\*O. Otherwise, NULL is returned and the \*Lint\*O value
pointed to by the \*Lgetdate_err\*O pointer is
set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If an error is detected, \*Lgetdate(\|)\*O will return NULL and set the error
number in \*Lgetdate_err\*O.  The possible error numbers and their meanings
are listed below.
.VL
.LI "\*LNumber\*O"
\*LDescription\*O
.LI "\*L1\*O"
The DATEMSK environment variable either is not set
or refers to a null string.
.LI "\*L2\*O"
The file containing the templates could not be
opened for reading.
.LI "\*L3\*O"
Attempts to \*Lfstat(\|)\*O the template file failed.
.LI "\*L4\*O"
The template file is not a regular file.
.LI "\*L5\*O"
An error occurred while reading the template file.
.LI "\*L6\*O"
(This error is not currently assigned.)
.LI "\*L7\*O"
No template file line matches the argument string.
.LI "\*L8\*O"
The date specified is unreasonable (for example, June 31).
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lctime(3)\*O, \*Lctype(3)\*O, \*Lsetlocale(3)\*O,
\*Lstrftime(3)\*O.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
