.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
 .\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: gethostbyname.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/13 20:35:05 $
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH gethostbyname 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgethostbyname\*O, \*Lgethostbyname_r\*O \- Get a network host entry by name
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <netdb.h>
.PP
\*Lstruct hostent *gethostbyname(
.nL
	\*Lconst char *\*Vname\*L);
.PP
\*Lint gethostbyname_r(
.nL
	\*Lconst char *\*Vname\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct hostent *\*Vhptr\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct hostent_data *\*Vhdptr\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vname"
\*OSpecifies the official network name or alias.
.LI "\*Vhptr\*O"
Points to the \*Lhostent\*O structure.
.LI "\*Vhdptr\*O"
Is data for hosts database.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "gethostbyname function"
.iX "gethostbyname_r function"
.iX "host entry" "returning by name"
.iX "hosts name files" "searching by name"
The \*Lgethostbyname(\|)\*O function returns a pointer to a structure of
type \*Lhostent\*O. Its members specify data obtained from either the local
\*L/etc/hosts\*O file or one of the files distributed by BIND or NIS.
To determine which file or files to search, and in which order, the system uses
the switches in the \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O file. The \*Lnetdb.h\*O header file
defines the \*Lhostent\*O structure.
.PP
If using BIND, the information is obtained from a name server specified in the
\*L/etc/resolv.conf\*O file.
.\" or from fields
.\"of a record line in the \*L/etc/hosts\*O network hostname database file.
.\"
.\"When the name server is not running, this function searches the
.\"\*L/etc/hosts\*O name file.
.PP
.\" Removed per Ron Menner
.\"The \*Lgethostbyname(\|)\*O function searches the \*L/etc/hosts\*O network
.\"hostname file sequentially until a match with the \*Vname\*O parameter occurs.
If the \*Vname\*O parameter does not contain a dot "." and you are using BIND,
the \*Lgethostbyname(\|)\*O function checks whether the environment variable
\*LHOSTALIASES\*O is set. If set, it first searches the file named by
\*LHOSTALIASES\*O for an alias matching the \*Vname\*O parameter. The alias
file has the following format:
.oS
\*Vname1 name2\*O
.oE
.VL
.LI "\*Vname1\*O"
The alias name. This name cannot include dots.
.LI "\*Vname2\*O"
The host name used by BIND to look up the host information. The hosts database
must be distributed by BIND.
.LE
.\"Removed per Ron Menner 10/27/93
.\"If the environment variable \*LHOSTALIASES\*O is set, the
.\"\*Lgethostbyname(\|)\*O
.\"function first searches the file named by \*LHOSTALIASES\*O.
.\"The \*Vname\*O parameter must specify the host's official name or an
.\"alias.
.\"When \*LEOF\*O (End-Of-File) is reached without a match, an error
.\"value is returned by this function.
.PP
The \*Lgethostbyname_r(\|)\*O function is the reentrant version of
\*Lgethostbyname(\|)\*O.  Upon successful completion, the returned structure is
stored in \*Vhptr\*O.  The
\*Lnetdb.h\*O header file defines the \*Lhostent\*O and
\*Lhostent_data\*O structures.
.SH NOTES
.PP
\*OFor \*Lgethostbyname(\|)\*O, a return value points to static data,
which is overwritten by any
subsequent calls.
.PP
You must zero-fill the \*Vhdptr\*O structure before its first access by the
\*Lgethostbyname_r(\|)\*O function.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion of \*Lgethostbyname(\|)\*O,
a pointer to a \*Lhostent\*O structure is returned.
A null pointer is returned whenever
the end of the \*L/etc/hosts\*O network hostname file is reached.
.PP
Upon successful completion of \*Lgethostbyname_r(\|)\*O, a a value of 0 (zero)
is returned.
Upon error, a value of -1 is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lgethostbyname(\|)\*O
or \*Lgethostbyname_r(\|)\*O
function call fails,  \*Lh_errno\*O is set to one of the following the values:
.VL
.LI "[HOST_NOT_FOUND]"
The name you have used is not an official hostname or alias; this is
not a soft error, another type of name server request may be successful.
.LI "[NO_ADDRESS]"
The requested
\*Vname\*O
is valid but does not have an Internet address at the name server.
.LI "[NO_RECOVERY]"
This is a nonrecoverable error.
.LI "[TRY_AGAIN]"
This is a soft error that indicates that the local server did not receive
a response from an authoritative server. A retry at some later time may
be successful.
.LE
.PP
If the \*Vname\*O, \*Vhptr\*O, or \*Vhdptr\*O parameter is invalid, the
function sets \*Lerrno\*O to [EINVAL].
.PP
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/hosts\*O"
The DARPA Internet network hostname database. Each record
in the file occupies a single line and has three fields consisting of the
host address, official hostname, and aliases.
.LI "\*L/etc/resolv.conf\*O"
The resolver configuration file.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.\".zA "defect, 6788, R1.1.1, Added resolv.conf(4)"
Functions:
.\" \*Lgethostent\*O(3),
\*Lgethostbyaddr\*O(3),
\*Lendhostent\*O(3).
.PP
Files:
\*Lhostname\*O(5), \*Lresolv.conf\*O(4), \*Lsvc.conf\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
