.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: gethostsex.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/02/04 17:07:53 $
.\"
.\"
.\" This is the source file for the gethostsex(3) manpage taken
.\" from the gethostsex(3) manpage supplied by MIPS and included
.\" in the BL5 build for TIN. That manpage has been split into
.\" ref pages, this one, and swapsex(3).         JM 6/20/91
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1991, Digital Equipment Corporation
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright (c) 1986, MIPS Computer Systems, Inc. |
.\" | All Rights Reserved.                            |
.\" ---------------------------------------------------
.\" $Header: /usr/doc/osf1doc/refpages/rcs/src/./BASE/DEC/man3/gethostsex.3,v 3.2.2.4 1993/02/04 17:07:53 Margaret_Barham Exp $
.TH gethostsex 3
.SH NAME
gethostsex \- get the byte sex of the host machine
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.iX "gethostsex function"
The \*Lgethostsex()\*O function has moved from the standard C library to
the \*Llibmld.a\*O library.  Programs that need to use \*Lgethostsex()\*O
must be linked with the \*L\-lmld\*O flag.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lint gethostsex()\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Vgethostsex\*O function returns one of two constants
BIGENDIAN or LITTLEENDIAN for the sex of the host machine.
These constants are in \*Vsex.h\*O.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
