.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: gethostbyaddr.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/13 20:31:24 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH gethostbyaddr 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgethostbyaddr\*O, \*Lgethostbyaddr_r\*O \- Gets a network host entry by address
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <netdb.h>
.PP
\*Lstruct hostent *gethostbyaddr\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char\*O \*V*addr\*L,\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vlen\*L,\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vtype\*L) ;\*L
.PP
\*Lint *gethostbyaddr_r(\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char\*O \*V*addr\*L,\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vlen\*L,\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vtype\*L,\*L
.nL
	\*Lstruct hostent *\*Vhptr\*L, \*L
.nL
	\*Lstruct hostent_data *\*Vhdptr\*L); \*L
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vaddr\*O"
\*OSpecifies an Internet address in network order.
.LI "\*Vlen\*O"
\*OSpecifies the number of bytes in an Internet address.
.LI "\*Vtype"
\*OSpecifies the Internet domain address format. The value
\*LAF_INET\*O must be used.
.LI "\*Vhdptr\*O"
Is data for the host database.
.LI "\*Vhptr\*O"
Points to the \*Lhostent\*O structure.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "gethostbyaddr function"
.iX "gethostbyaddr_r function"
.iX "host entry" "returning by address"
.iX "hosts name files" "searching by address"
The
\*Lgethostbyaddr(\|)\*O function
searches the \*L/etc/hosts\*O network hostname file
sequentially until a match with the \*Vaddr\*O and \*Vtype\*O
parameters occurs. The \*Vlen\*O parameter must specify
the number of bytes in an Internet address. The \*Vaddress\*O
parameter must specify the address in network order. The
\*Vtype\*O parameter must be the constant \*LAF_INET\*O, which
specifies the Internet address format. When \*LEOF\*O (End-of-File)
is reached without a match, an error value is returned.
.PP
The
\*Lgethostbyaddr(\|)\*O function returns a pointer to a structure of
type \*Lhostent\*O. Its members specify data obtained from a
name server specified in the \*L/etc/resolv.conf\*O file or from fields
of a record line in the \*L/etc/hosts\*O network hostname database file.
When the name server is not running, the
\*Lgethostbyaddr(\|)\*O
function searches the
\*Lhosts\*O name file. The \*Lhostent\*O structure is defined in the
\*Lnetdb.h\*O header file.
.PP
Use the \*Lendhostent(\|)\*O function
to close the \*L/etc/hosts\*O file.
.wH \&.rS
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note.
.PP
The system searches either the local \*L/etc/hosts\*O file or one of the
files distributed by BIND or NIS for the requested information.
To determine which file or files to search, and
in which order, the system uses the switches in the \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O file.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP
The \*Lgethostbyaddr_r(\|)\*O function is the reentrant version of
\*Lgethostbyaddr(\|)\*O.  Upon successful completion, the returned structure is
stored in \*Vhptr\*O.  The
\*Lnetdb.h\*O header file defines the \*Lhostent\*O and
\*Lhostent_data\*O structures.
.SH NOTES
.PP
\*OFor \*Lgethostbyaddr(\|)\*O, a return value points to static data,
which is overwritten by any
subsequently called functions using the same structure.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion of \*Lgethostbyaddr(\|)\*O,
a pointer to a \*Lhostent\*O structure is returned.
A NULL pointer is returned whenever
the end of the \*Lhosts\*O network hostname file is reached.
.PP
Upon successful completion of \*Lgethostbyaddr_r(\|)\*O, a value of 0 (zero)
is returned.
Upon error, a value of -1 is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occurs, the
\*Lgethostbyaddr_r(\|)\*O function sets \*Lerrno\*O to the
corresponding value:
.VL
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vname\*O, \*Vhptr\*O, or \*Vhdptr\*O is invalid, or \*Vtype\*O is
not \*LAF_INET\*O.
.LE
.ig ++
If the
\*Lgethostbyaddr(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lh_errno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.VL
.LI "[TRY_AGAIN]"
This is a soft error that indicates that the local server did not receive
a response from an authoritative server. A retry at some later time may
be successful.
.LI "[NO_RECOVERY]"
This is a nonrecoverable error.
.LI "[NO_ADDRESS]"
The address you used is not valid.  This is not a soft error, another
type of name server request may be successful.
.LE
.PP
If the
\*Lgethostbyaddr_r(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lh_errno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.VL
.LI "[TRY_AGAIN]"
This is a soft error that indicates that the local server did not receive
a response from an authoritative server. A retry at some later time may
be successful.
.LI "[NO_RECOVERY]"
This is a nonrecoverable error.
.LI "[NO_ADDRESS]"
The address you used is not valid.  This is not a soft error, another
type of name server request may be successful.
.LI "[EINVAL]"
\*Vname\*O, \*Vhptr\*O, or \*Vhdptr\*O is NULL.
.LE
.PP
.++
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/hosts\*O"
This file is the DARPA Internet network hostname database. Each record
in the file occupies a single line and has three fields consisting of
the host address, official hostname, and aliases.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgethostbyname\*O(3),
\*Lendhostent\*O(3),
\*Lsethostent\*O(3).
.iX "gethostbyaddr function"
.iX "gethostbyaddr_r function"
.PP
Files: \*Lresolv.conf\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
