.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: gethostent.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 19:01:02 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH gethostent 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgethostent\*O, \*Lgethostent_r\*O, \*Lsethostent\*O, \*Lsethostent_r\*O \- Opens network host file
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <netdb.h>
.PP
\*Lstruct hostent *gethostent(void);
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" gethostent_r not yet documented by OSF
\*Lint gethostent_r\*O(\*L
.nL
        \*Lstruct hostent \*V*host\*L,
        \*Lstruct hostent_data \*V*host_data\*O);
.PP
\*Lint sethostent\*O(\*L
.nL
        \*Lint \*Vstay_open\*L);
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" sethostent_r not yet documented by OSF
\*Lint sethostent_r\*O(\*L
.nL
        \*Lint \*Vstay_open\*L,
        \*Lstruct hostent_data \*V*host_data\*O);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vhost"
\*OPoints to the \*Lhostent\*O structure.
.LI "\*Vhost_data"
\*OIs data for the hosts database.
.LI "\*Vstay_open"
\*OContains
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Removed \*O from the end of the line because it was messing things up.
a value used to indicate when to close the host file.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
Specifying a value of 0 (zero) closes the \*L/etc/hosts\*O
file after each call to the
\*Lgethostbyname(\|)\*O or
\*Lgethostbyaddr(\|)\*O function.
Specifying a nonzero value allows the \*L/etc/hosts
\*Ofile to remain open after each call.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "gethostent function"
.iX "sethostent function"
.iX "gethostent_r function"
.iX "sethostent_r function"
.iX "hosts file" "opening"
.iX "hosts file" "reading next line"
.iX "hosts file" "resetting file marker"
.iX "hosts file" "retrieving entries"
The \*Lgethostent(\|)\*O (get host entry) function reads the next
line of the \*L/etc/hosts\*O
file,
opening it if necessary.
.PP
The \*Lsethostent(\|)\*O (set host entry) function opens the \*L/etc/hosts\*O
file and resets
the file marker to the beginning of the file.
.PP
Passing a nonzero value to the \*Vstay_open\*O parameter establishes
a connection with a name server and allows a client process to retrieve
one entry at a time from the \*L/etc/hosts\*O file.  The client
process can close the connection with the
\*Lendhostent(\|)\*O function.
.PP
The \*Lgethostent_r(\|)\*O and \*Lsethostent_r(\|)\*O functions are reentrant
versions of the \*Lgethostent(\|)\*O and \*Lsethostent(\|)\*O functions.
When \*Lgethostent_r(\|)\*O completes successfully,
\*Vhost\*O points to the returned structure.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note.
.PP
The system searches either the local \*L/etc/hosts\*O file or one of the
files distributed by BIND or NIS for the requested information.
To determine which file or files to search, and
in which order, the system uses the switches in the \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O file.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH NOTES
.PP
When you first call
the \*Lsethostent_r(\|)\*O function, you must zero fill the
\*Lhostent_data\*O structure. The \*Lnetdb.h\*O header file defines the
\*Lhostent\*O and \*Lhostent_data\*O structures.
.PP
If the system is configured to access the hosts
database through NIS, the \*Lgethostent_r(\|)\*O  function may not
produce correct results if called from multiple threads.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If an error occurs or if the end of the file is reached, the \*Lsethostent(\|)
\*Ofunction returns a null pointer to the
calling program and
an error code, indicating
the specific error, is moved into the
\*Lh_errno\*O variable.  The
calling program must examine \*Lh_errno\*O to determine the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lsethostent(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lh_errno\*O
may be set to the following value:
.VL 1i
.LI "[NO_RECOVERY]"
This error code indicates an unrecoverable
error.
.LE
If the following condition occurs, the \*Lsethostent_r(\|)\*O function
sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.VL
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vhost_data\*O parameter is invalid.
.LE
.PP
In addition, the \*Lsethostent(\|)\*O and \*Lsethostent_r(\|) functions
can fail to open the file.  In this case \*Lerrno\*O will be set to the
failure.
.PP
If the following condition occurs, the \*Lgethostent_r(\|)\*O function
sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.VL
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vhost\*O or \*Vhost_data\*O parameter is invalid.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 1i
.LI "\*L/etc/hosts"
\*OContains the hostname database.
.LI "\*L/etc/resolv.conf"
\*OContains
the name server and domain name.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lendhostent\*O(3),
\*Lgethostbyaddr\*O(3),
\*Lgethostbyname\*O(3)
.iX "gethostent function"
.iX "sethostent function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
