.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getlong.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/29 16:13:56 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH _getlong 3
.SH NAME
\*L_getlong\*O \- Retrieves 32-bit quantities from a byte stream
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.PP
\*L#include <netinet/in.h>
\*O\c
.PP
\*L#include <arpa/nameser.h>
.PP
\*L#include <resolv.h>
.PP
\*Lunsigned int  _getlong\*O (\*L
.nL
	\*Lu_char *\*Vmessage_ptr \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*Vmessage_ptr"
\*OSpecifies
a pointer into the byte stream.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "_getlong function"
.iX "byte stream" "retrieving 32-bit quantities from"
The \*L_getlong(\|)\*O function gets 32-bit quantities from the
byte stream or arbitrary byte boundaries.
.PP
The \*L_getlong(\|)\*O function is one of a set of subroutines
that form the resolver, a set of functions
that resolves domain names.  Global information that is used by the
resolver functions is kept in the \*L_res\*O data structure.
The \*Linclude/resolv.h\*O
file contains
the \*L_res\*O data structure definition.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion,
the \*L_getlong(\|)\*O function returns an unsigned int (32-bit)
value.
.SH FILES
.PP
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/resolv.conf\*O"
Defines name server and domain names.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lres_init\*O(3),
\*Lres_mkquery\*O(3),
\*Lres_send\*O(3),
\*Ldn_comp\*O(3),
\*Ldn_expand\*O(3),
\*Ldn_find\*O(3),
\*Lgetshort\*O(3),
\*Lputshort\*O(3),
\*Lputlong\*O(3),
\*Ldn_skipname\*O(3)
.iX "_getlong function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
