.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getnetgrent.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 10:46:24 $
.\"
.TH getnetgrent 3
.SH NAME
getnetgrent, setnetgrent, endnetgrent, innetgr \- get network group entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
.ft B
innetgr(netgroup, machine, user, domain)
char *netgroup, *machine, *user, *domain;
.sp.5
setnetgrent(netgroup)
char *netgroup
.sp.5
endnetgrent()
.sp.5
getnetgrent(machinep, userp, domainp)
char **machinep, **userp, **domainp;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getnetgrent subroutine"
.iX "setnetgrent subroutine"
.iX "endnetgrent subroutine"
.iX "innetgr subroutine"
.iX "netgroup file" "getting member entry"
The \*Linnetgr\*O routine accesses the \*Lnetgroup\*O file
and checks to see if the specified input parameters match an entry in the
file.
The routine
returns 1 if it matches an entry, or 0 if it does not.
Any of the three strings;
.B machine,
.B user,
or
.B domain
can be NULL, which signifies any string in that position is valid.
.PP
The \*Lgetnetgrent\*O routine returns the next
member of a network group.  After the call, \*Lmachinep\*O will
contain a pointer to a string containing the name
of the machine part of the network group member, and similarly
for
.B userp
and
.B domainp.
If
.B machinep,
.B userp
or
.B domainp
is
returned as a NULL pointer, it signifies any string is valid.
The \*Lgetnetgrent\*O routine allocates space for the name
by using the \*Lmalloc\*O routine.
This space is released when an \*Lendnetgrent\*O call is made.
The \*Lgetnetgrent\*O routine returns 1 if it succeeds in obtaining another
member of the network group, or 0 if it reaches the
end of the group.
.PP
The \*Lsetnetgrent\*O routine establishes the network group from which
\*Lgetnetgrent\*O will obtain members, and also restarts calls to
\*Lgetnetgrent\*O from the beginning of the list.  If the previous
\*Lsetnetgrent\*O call was to a different network group, an
\*Lendnetgrent\*O call is implied.
.PP
The \*Lendnetgrent\*O routine releases the space allocated during the
\*Lgetnetgrent\*O calls.
.PP
Note that the \*Lnetgroup\*O file is distributed by NIS and exists
in its original, readable form on the NIS master server only.
NIS slave servers distribute copies of the \*Lnetgroup\*O maps created
from the original on the master.
.SH FILES
.PP
.nf
/var/yp/src/netgroup
/var/yp/\f2domain\fP/netgroup
/var/yp/\f2domain\fP/netgroup.byuser
/var/yp/\f2domain\fP/netgroup.byhost
.fi
.EQ
delim off
.EN
