.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getnetent.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/20 01:53:30 $
.\"
.\".\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH getnetent 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetnetent\*O, \*Lgetnetent_r\*O \- Get a network entry
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <netdb.h>
.PP
\*Lstruct netent *getnetent(void);
.PP
\*Lint getnetent_r(
.nL
	\*Lstruct netent *\*Vnet\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct netent_data *\*Vnet_data\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vnet"
\*OPoints to the \*Lnetent\*O structure.
.LI "\*Vnet_data"
\*OIs data for the networks database.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getnetent function"
.iX "getnetent_r function"
.iX "networks file" "opening"
.iX "networks file" "reading next line"
The \*Lgetnetent(\|)\*O function retrieves network information
by opening and sequentially reading the
\*L/etc/networks\*O file.
.PP
\*OThe \*Lgetnetent(\|)\*O function returns a pointer to a
\*Lnetent\*O structure, which
contains the equivalent fields for a network description line in the \*L/etc/networks\*O
file.  The \*Lnetent\*O structure is defined in the
\*Lnetdb.h\*O header file.
.PP
\*OUse the \*Lendnetent(\|)\*O function
to close the \*L/etc/networks\*O file.
.PP
The \*Lgetnetent_r(\|)\*O function is the reentrant version of the
\*Lgetnetent(\|)\*O function.  Upon successful completion, the
returned structure is pointed to by \*Vnet\*O.  The
\*Lnetdb.h\*O header file defines the \*Lnetent\*O and
\*Lnetent_data\*O structures.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note.
.PP
The system searches either the local \*L/etc/networks\*O file or the
NIS distributed networks file for the requested information.
To determine which file or files to search, and
in which order, the system uses the switches in the \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O file.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH NOTES
.PP
\*OThe \*Lgetnetent(\|)\*O return value points to static data,
which is overwritten by any subsequently called functions using the
same structure.
.PP
Before the first access (by either the \*Lsetnetent_r(\|)\*O or
\*Lgetnetent_r(\|)\*O functions), set to NULL the \*Lnet_fp\*O field of the
\*Lnetent_data\*O structure.
.PP
If the system is configured to access network information
through NIS, the \*Lgetnetent_r(\|)\*O  function may not
produce correct results if called from multiple threads.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lgetnetent(\|)\*O function
returns a pointer to a \*Lnetent\*O structure.  If an error occurs or
EOF is reached, the \*Lgetnetent(\|)
\*Ofunction returns a value of 0 (zero).
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lgetnetent_r(\|)\*O function returns
a value of 0 (zero).  Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occurs, the \*Lgetnetent_r(\|)\*O
function sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.PP
.VL
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vnetent\*O or \*Vnet_data\*O parameter is invalid.
.LI "[ESRCH]"
The search failed (EOF).
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/networks\*O"
This file is the DARPA Internet network name database file. Each record
in the file occupies a single line and has three fields: the
official network name, the network number, and alias.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetnetbyaddr\*O(3),
\*Lgetnetbyname\*O(3),
\*Lsetnetent\*O(3), \*Lendnetent\*O(3).
.iX "getnetent function"
.iX "getnetent_r function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
