.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getnetbyaddr.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/20 01:48:15 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH getnetbyaddr 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetnetbyaddr\*O, \*Lgetnetbyaddr_r\*O \- Get a network entry by address
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <netdb.h>
.PP
\*Lstruct netent *getnetbyaddr\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Llong \*Vnum\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vtype\*O);\*L
.PP
\*Lint getnetbyaddr_r\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Llong \*Vnum\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vtype\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct netent *\*Vnet\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct netent_data *\*Vnet_data\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vnum"
\*OSpecifies the number of the network in host-byte order.
.LI "\*Vtype"
\*OSpecifies the Internet domain address format. The
value \*LAF_INET\*O must be used.
.LI "\*Vnet"
\*OPoints to the \*Lnetent\*O structure.
.LI "\*Vnet_data"
\*OIs data for the networks database.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getnetbyaddr function"
.iX "getnetbyaddr_r function"
.iX "network entry" "returning by address"
.iX "networks file" "searching by address"
The
\*Lgetnetbyaddr(\|)\*O
function returns a pointer to a structure of type
\*Lnetent\*O.  Its members specify data in fields from a record line in the
\*L/etc/networks\*O network name database file. The \*Lnetdb.h\*O header
file defines the \*Lnetent\*O structure.
.PP
The
\*Lgetnetbyaddr(\|)\*O function searches the \*L/etc/networks\*O file
sequentially
until a match with the \*Vnum\*O and \*Vtype\*O parameters
occurs. The \*Vnum\*O parameter must specify the network number
in host-byte order. The \*Vtype\*O parameter must be the constant
\*LAF_INET\*O. When EOF (End-of-File) is reached without a match,
an error value is returned by this parameter.
.PP
\*OUse the \*Lendnetent(\|)\*O function to close the \*L/etc/networks\*O file.
.wH .rS
.PP
The \*Lgetnetbyaddr_r(\|)\*O function is the reentrant version of the
\*Lgetnetbyaddr(\|)\*O function.  Upon successful completion, the
returned structure is pointed to by \*Vnet\*O.  The
\*Lnetdb.h\*O header file defines the \*Lnetent\*O and
\*Lnetent_data\*O structures.
.SH NOTES
.PP
\*OThe \*Lgetnetbyaddr(\|)\*O return value points to static data,
which is overwritten by any
subsequently called functions using the same structure.
.PP
Before the first access (by either the \*Lsetnetent_r(\|)\*O or
\*Lgetnetbyaddr_r(\|)\*O functions), set to NULL the \*Lnet_fp\*O
field of the \*Lnetent_data\*O structure.  In addition, the
\*L_net_stayopen\*O flag of the \*Lnetent_data\*O structure should
be initialized if the \*Lsetnetent(\|)\*O function is \*Vnot\*O used.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lgetnetbyaddr(\|)\*O function returns
a pointer to a \*Lnetent\*O structure.
A value of 0 (zero) is returned when an
error occurs or when the end of the \*L/etc/networks\*O name file
is reached.
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lgetnetbyaddr_r(\|)\*O function returns
a value of 0 (zero).  Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occurs, the \*Lgetnetbyaddr_r(\|)\*O
function sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.PP
.VL
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vnet\*O or \*Vnet_data\*O parameter is invalid.
.LI "[ESRCH]"
The search failed.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/networks\*O"
The DARPA Internet network name database file. Each record
in the file occupies a single line and has three fields: the
official network name, the network number, and alias.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetnetent\*O(3),
\*Lgetnetbyname\*O(3),
\*Lsetnetent\*O(3),\*Lendnetent\*O(3).
.iX "getnetbyaddr function"
.iX "getnetbyaddr_r function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
