.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getnetent.3n,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 13:12:43 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)getnetent.3n 9.1 4/15/91
.TH getnetent 3n
.SH NAME
getnetent, getnetbyaddr, getnetbyname, setnetent, endnetent \- get networks entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
.B #include <netdb.h>
.PP
.B struct netent *getnetent()
.PP
.B struct netent *getnetbyname(\f2name\fP)
.B char *\f2name\fP;
.PP
.B struct netent *getnetbyaddr(\f2net\fP, \f2type\fP)
.B long \f2net\fP; int \f2type\fP;
.PP
.B void setnetent(\f2stayopen\fP)
.B int \f2stayopen\fP;
.PP
.B void endnetent()
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getnetent subroutine"
.iX "getnetbyaddr subroutine"
.iX "getnetbyname subroutine"
.iX "setnetent subroutine"
.iX "endnetent subroutine"
.iX "networks file" "getting entry"
The \*Lgetnetent\*O, \*Lgetnetbyname\*O, and \*Lgetnetbyaddr\*O subroutines
each return a pointer to an object with the
following structure
containing the broken-out
fields of a line in the \*Lnetworks\*O database.
.oS
struct netent {
 char *n_name; /* official name of net */
 char **n_aliases; /* alias list */
 int n_addrtype; /* net number type */
 long n_net; /* net number */
};
.oE
.PP
The members of this structure are:
.TP \w'n_addrtype'u+2n
n_name
The official name of the network.
.TP \w'n_addrtype'u+2n
n_aliases
A zero terminated list of alternate names for the network.
.TP \w'n_addrtype'u+2n
n_addrtype
The type of the network number returned: AF_INET.
.TP \w'n_addrtype'u+2n
n_net
The network number.  Network numbers are returned in machine byte
order.
.PP
If the
\*Vstayopen\*O
flag on a \*Lsetnetent\*O subroutine is NULL, the
\*Lnetworks\*O database is opened.  Otherwise the \*Lsetnetent\*O
has the effect of rewinding the \*Lnetworks\*O database.
The \*Lendnetent\*O may be called to close the
\*Lnetworks\*O database when processing is complete.
.PP
The \*Lgetnetent\*O subroutine simply reads the next
line while \*Lgetnetbyname\*O and \*Lgetnetbyaddr\*O search until a matching
\*Vname\*O
or
\*Vnet\*O
number is found
(or until EOF is encountered).  The \f2type\fP must be AF_INET.
The \*Lgetnetent\*O
subroutine keeps a pointer in the database, allowing
successive calls to be used
to search the entire file.
.PP
A call to \*Lsetnetent\*O must be made before a \*Lwhile\*O loop using
\*Lgetnetent\*O in order to perform initialization and an \*Lendnetent\*O
must be used after the loop.  Both \*Lgetnetbyname\*O and \*Lgetnetbyaddr\*O
make calls to \*Lsetnetent\*O and \*Lendnetent\*O.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
.iX "getnetent subroutine" "restrictions"
All information
is contained in a static area
so it must be copied if it is
to be saved.  Only Internet network
numbers are currently understood.
.PP
If NIS is running, \*Lgetnetent\*O does
not return the entries in any particular order.
See the
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
for NIS setup information.
.\".PP
.\"The networks database may also be distributed via the BIND/Hesiod
.\"naming service.  See the
.\"\*VGuide to the BIND/Hesiod Service\*O
.\"for more information.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Null pointer
(0) returned on EOF or error.
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/etc/networks\*O
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lnetworks\*O(4), \*Lsvc.conf\*O(4)
.\".br
.\"\*VGuide to the BIND/Hesiod Service\*O
.\".br
.\"\*VGuide to the Yellow Pages Service\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
