.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getpass.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/29 20:17:08 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH getpass 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetpass\*O \- Reads a password
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <unistd.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lchar *getpass(
.nL
        const char *\*Vprompt\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vprompt\*O"
Points to the prompt string that is written to \*Lstderr\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getpass function"
.iX "password" "reading"
The \*Lgetpass(\|)\*O function opens the controlling terminal
file, flushes output, disables echoing, and reads up to a newline
character or an (EOF) End-of-File character from the \*L/dev/tty\*O file.
The terminal state is then restored and the controlling terminal
is closed.
.PP
If the \*Lgetpass(\|)\*O
function is interrupted by the \*LSIGINT\*O signal, the terminal state of
\*L/dev/tty\*O is restored before the signal is delivered to the calling
process.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Lgetpass(\|)\*O function is not threadsafe because it
manipulates global signal state.
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Trial use.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lgetpass(\|)\*O
function returns a pointer string of no more than
\*LPASS_MAX\*O characters plus a terminating null value. This return
value points to data that is overwritten
by successive calls. If the controlling terminal file cannot be opened,
a null pointer is returned.
.PP
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/dev/tty\*O"
Specifies the tty device special file.
.LE
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occurs, as a result of the
\*Lgetpass(\|)\*O function calling the \*Lfopen("/dev/tty", "w+")\*O
function, the \*Lgetpass(\|)\*O function
sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.VL
.LI "[EACCES]"
Search permission is denied on a component of the pathname prefix;
or the file exists and the permissions specified by the
\*Vmode\*O parameter
are denied; or the file does not exist and write permission is
denied for the parent directory of the file to be created.
.LI "[EINTR]"
The function was interrupted by a signal that was caught.
.LI "[EMFILE]"
The \*LOPEN_MAX\*O file descriptors are currently open in the calling process.
.LI "[ENFILE]"
Too many files are currently open in the system.
.LI "[ENOENT]"
The named file does not exist or the \*Vpath\*O
parameter points to an empty string.
.LI "[ENXIO]"
The named file is a character-special or block-special file
and the device associated with this special file does not exist.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lfopen\*O(3).
.PP
Files:
\*Ltty\*O(7),
\*Ltermios\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
