.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getprotobyname.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 19:13:06 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH getprotobyname 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetprotobyname\*O, \*Lgetprotobyname_r\*O \- Get a protocol entry by protocol name
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <netdb.h>
.PP
\*Lstruct protoent *getprotobyname(
.nL
	\*Lconst char *\*Vname\*L);
.PP
\*Lint getprotobyname_r(
.nL
	\*Lconst char *\*Vname\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct protoent *\*Vproto\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct protoent_data *\*Vproto_data\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*Vname"
\*OSpecifies the official protocol name or alias.
.LI "\*Vproto\*O"
Points to the \*Lprotoent\*O structure.
.LI "\*Vproto_data\*O"
Is data for the protocols database.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getprotobyname function"
.iX "getprotobyname_r function"
.iX "protocol entry" "returning by name"
.iX "protocols file" "searching by name"
The
\*Lgetprotobyname(\|)\*O function returns a pointer to a structure of
type
\*Lprotoent\*O. Its members specify data in fields from a record line in the
\*L/etc/protocols\*O network protocols database file. The \*Lnetdb.h\*O
header file defines the \*Lprotoent\*O structure.
.PP
The
\*Lgetprotobyname(\|)\*O function searches the \*L/etc/protocols\*O
file sequentially until a match with the \*Vname\*O
parameter occurs. The \*Vname\*O parameter will specify either
the official protocol name or an alias. When EOF (End-of-File) is
reached without a match, an error value is returned by this
function.
.PP
When using the \*Lgetprotobyname(\|)\*O function, use the
\*Lendprotoent(\|)\*O function
to close the protocols file.  When using the \*Lgetprotobyname_r(\|)\*O
function, use the
\*Lendprotoent_r(\|)\*O function
to close the protocols file.
.PP
The \*Lgetprotobyname_r(\|)\*O function
is the reentrant version of the \*Lgetprotobyname(\|)\*O function.
Upon successful completion, the
returned structure is pointed to by \*Vproto\*O.  The
\*Lnetdb.h\*O header file defines the \*Lprotoent\*O and
\*Lprotoent_data\*O structures.
.\" last para before NOTES section
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note.
.PP
The system searches either the local \*L/etc/protocols\*O file or the
NIS distributed networks file for the requested information.
To determine which file or files to search, and
in which order, the system uses the switches in the \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O file.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Lgetprotobyname(\|)\*O return value points to static data, which
is overwritten by any
subsequently called functions using the same structure.
.PP
Before its first access by either the \*Lsetprotoent_r(\|)\*O or
\*Lgetprotobyname_r(\|)\*O functions, you must zero-fill the
\*Lprotoent_data\*O structure.
.\"the following text removed per David Long
.\"set to NULL the \*Lproto_fp\*O
.\"field of the \*Lprotoent_data\*O structure.  In addition, the
.\"\*L_proto_stayopen\*O flag of the \*Lprotoent_data\*O structure should
.\"be initialized if the \*Lsetprotoent(\|)\*O function is \*Vnot\*O used.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lgetprotobyname(\|)\*O function returns
a pointer to a \*Vprotoent\*O structure,
The \*Lgetprotobyname(\|)\*O function returns a null pointer when
a failure occurs
or when the end of the \*L/etc/protocols\*O file is
reached.
.PP
Upon successful completion for \*Lgetprotobyname_r(\|)\*O a value of 0
(zero) is returned.
Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occurs, the \*Lgetprotobyname_r(\|)\*O
function sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.PP
.VL
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vproto_data\*O or \*Vproto\*O parameter is invalid.
.LI "[ESRCH]"
The search failed.
.LE
.PP
In addition, if the function fails to open the file, it sets \*Lerrno\*O to
indicate the cause of the failure.
.SH FILES
.PP
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/protocols\*O"
The DARPA Internet network protocols name database file.  Each
record in the file occupies a single line and has three fields:
the official protocol name, the protocol number,
and protocol aliases.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetprotobynumber\*O(3),
\*Lgetprotoent\*O(3),
\*Lsetprotoent\*O(3),
\*Lendprotoent\*O(3).
.iX "getprotobyname function"
.iX "getprotobyname_r function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
