.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getprdfent.3,v $ $Revision: 3.6.4.11 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/15 01:53:33 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988-90 SecureWare, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved
.\" @(#)getprdfent.3	1.2 17:53:25 3/28/90
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
.TH getprdfent 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetprdfent\*O, \*Lgetprdfnam\*O, \*Lsetprdfent\*O, \*Lendprdfent\*O, \*Lputprdfnam\*O \- Manipulate system default database entry (Enhanced Security)
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Security Library (\*Llibsecurity.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.nL
#include <sys/security.h>
.nL
#include <prot.h>
.sp 0.4v
struct pr_default *getprdfent(void);
.sp 0.4v
struct pr_default *getprdfnam(
.nL
	char *\*Vname\*L);
.sp 0.4v
void setprdfent(void);
.sp 0.4v
void endprdfent(void);
.sp 0.4v
int putprdfnam(
.nL
	char *\*Vname\*L,
.nL
	struct pr_default *\*Vpr\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Specifies a system default database entry name.
.LI "\*Vpr\*O"
Specifies a system default database control entry structure.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "database" "manipulating entry in system default"
.iX "system default database" "defined"
.iX "system default database" "manipulating entry in"
.iX "getprdfent function"
.iX "getprdfnam function"
.iX "setprdfent function"
.iX "endprdfent function"
.iX "putprdfnam function"
The
\*Lgetprdfent(\|)\*O
and
\*Lgetprdfnam(\|)\*O
functions
each return a pointer to
an object with the following structure containing the
separated-out fields of a line in the system default database.
Each line in the database contains a \*Lpr_default\*O structure, declared
in the
\*Lprot.h\*O
header file:
.oS
struct   system_default_fields  {
        time_t        fd_inactivity_timeout;
        time_t        fd_pw_expire_warning;
        char          fd_pw_site_callout[MAXPATHLEN];
        mask_t        fd_secclass[AUTH_SECCLASSVEC_SIZE];
        char          fd_boot_authenticate;
        char          fd_audit_enable;
} ;


struct	system_default_flags {
        unsigned short
          fg_inactivity_timeout:1,
          fg_pw_expire_warning:1,
          fg_secclass:1,
          fg_boot_authenticate:1,
          fg_audit_enable,
} ;


struct   pr_default  {
        char                            dd_name[20];
        char                            dg_name;
        struct pr_field                 prd;
        struct pr_flag                  prg;
        struct t_field                  tcd;
        struct t_flag                   tcg;
        struct dev_field                devd;
        struct dev_flag                 devg;
        struct system_default_fields    sfld;
        struct system_default_flags     sflg;
} ;
.oE
.PP
Currently there is only one entry in the system
default database, referenced by name "default."
.PP
The system default database contains default values for all
parameters in the protected password, terminal control, and
device assignment databases, as well as configurable system-wide
parameters. The fields from the other databases are described in
the corresponding reference pages.
\*Lfd_pw_expire_warning\*O is the time, in seconds, before a
password's expiration that the system begins printing
expiration warnings when the user logs in.
\*Lfd_secclass\*O, although not used in the software, is an
indicator of the system's TCSEC (\*VOrange Book\*O) class of trust.
\*Lfd_boot_authenticate\*O is a Boolean flag that indicates
whether an authorized user must authenticate before the system
begins operation.
\*Lfd_audit_enable\*O is true if the system begins audit at system startup,
and is 0 (zero) otherwise.
.\" Obsolete per Spider
.\" The \*Lauditcmd -E\*O option checks this flag
.\" when enabling audit at system startup.
.PP
The
\*Lgetprdfent(\|)\*O
function
returns a pointer to the first
\*Vpr_default\*O structure in the database when first
called.  Thereafter, it returns a
pointer to the next \*Lpr_default\*O structure in the database, so
successive calls can be used to search the database (not
currently supported).
The
\*Lgetprdfnam(\|)\*O
function
searches from the beginning of the file until
a default entry matching \*Vname\*O is found, and returns a pointer to
the particular structure in which it was found.
If an End-of-File or an error is encountered on reading, these
functions return a
null
pointer. Currently, all programs access the default database by
calling \*Lgetprdfnam(\|)\*O (the default).
.PP
A call to the
\*Lsetprdfent(\|)\*O
function
has the effect of rewinding the default control
file to allow repeated searches.
The
\*Lendprdfent(\|)\*O
function
can be called to
close the database when processing is complete.
.PP
The
\*Lputprdfnam(\|)\*O
function
puts a new or replaced default control entry
\*Vpr\*O
with key
\*Vname\*O
into the database.
If the \*Lprg.fg_name\*O field contains a value of 0 (zero), the
requested entry  is deleted from the system default database.
The
\*Lputprdfnam(\|)\*O
function
locks the database for all update operations,
and performs an
\*Lendprdfent(\|)\*O
after the update or failed attempt.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The value returned by \*Lgetprdfent(\|)\*O and \*Lgetprdfnam(\|)\*O
refers to a structure that is overwritten by calls to these
routines. To retrieve an entry, modify it, and replace it in the
database, you must copy the entry using structure assignment and
supply the modified buffer to \*Lputprdfnam(\|)\*O.
.PP
Programs using these routines must be compiled with
\%\*L-lsecurity\*O.
.SH CAUTIONS
.PP
Do not delete the system default entry. This renders the system unusable.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The
\*Lgetprdfent(\|)\*O and \*Lgetprdfnam(\|)\*O
functions return null
pointers on EOF or an error. The \*Lputprdfnam(\|)\*O
function returns a value of 0 (zero) if it
cannot add or update the entry.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 28
.LI "\*L/etc/auth/system/default\*O"
System defaults database.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetprpwent\*O(3),
\*Lgetprtcent\*O(3),
\*Lgetdvagent\*O(3).
.PP
Files:
\*Ldefault\*O(4)
.iX "getprdfent function"
.iX "getprdfnam function"
.iX "setprdfent function"
.iX "endprdfent function"
.iX "putprdfnam function"
.\" #endif /* SEC_BASE */
.EQ
delim off
.EN
