.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getprotobynumber.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 19:16:08 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH getprotobynumber 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetprotobynumber\*O, \*Lgetprotobynumber_r\*O \- Get a protocol entry by number
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library \*L(libc.a)\*O
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <netdb.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lstruct protoent *getprotobynumber(
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vnum\*L);
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint getprotobynumber_r(
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vnum\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct protoent *\*Vproto\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct protoent_data *\*Vproto_data\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vnum"
\*OSpecifies the protocol number.
.LI "\*Vproto\*O"
Points to the \*Lprotoent\*O structure.
.LI "\*Vproto_data\*O"
Is data for the protocols database.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getprotobynumber function"
.iX "getprotobynumber_r function"
.iX "protocol entry" "returning by number"
.iX "protocols file" "searching by number"
The
\*Lgetprotobynumber(\|)\*O function returns a pointer to a structure of
type \*Lprotoent\*O. Its members specify data in fields from a record
line in the \*L/etc/protocols\*O network protocols database file. The
\*Lnetdb.h\*O header file defines the \*Lprotoent\*O structure.
.PP
The
\*Lgetprotobynumber(\|)\*O function searches the \*L/etc/protocols\*O
file sequentially until a match with the \*Vnum\*O
parameter occurs. The \*Vnum\*O parameter must specify
the official protocol number. When EOF (End-Of-File) is
reached without a match, an error value is returned by this
function.
.PP
The \*Lgetprotobynumber_r(\|)\*O function is the reentrant version of
the \*Lgetprotobynumber(\|)\*O function.  Upon successful completion, the
returned structure is pointed to by \*Vproto\*O.  The
\*Lnetdb.h\*O header file defines the \*Lprotoent\*O and
\*Lprotoent_data\*O structures.
.PP
When using the \*Lgetprotobynumber(\|)\*O function, use the
\*Lendprotoent(\|)\*O function
to close the protocols file.  When using the
\*Lgetprotobynumber_r(\|)\*O function, use the
\*Lendprotoent_r(\|)\*O function
to close the protocols file.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note.
.PP
The system searches either the local \*L/etc/protocols\*O file or the
NIS distributed networks file for the requested information.
To determine which file or files to search, and
in which order, the system uses the switches in the \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O file.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Lgetprotobynumber(\|)\*O function return value points to static
data, which is overwritten by any
subsequently called functions using the same structure.
.PP
Before its first access by either the \*Lsetprotoent_r(\|)\*O or
\*Lgetprotobynumber_r(\|)\*O functions, you must zero-fill the
\*Lprotoent_data\*O structure.
.\"
.\"The following is deleted per David Long
.\"set to NULL the
.\"\*Lproto_fp\*O field of the \*Lprotoent_data\*O structure.  In
.\"addition, the \*L_proto_stayopen\*O flag of the \*Lprotoent_data\*O
.\"structure should
.\"be initialized if the \*Lsetprotoent(\|)\*O function is \*Vnot\*O used.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lgetprotobynumber(\|)\*O
function returns
a pointer to a \*Lprotoent\*O structure.  The
\*Lgetprotobynumber(\|)\*O function returns a null pointer when a
failure occurs
or whenever the end of the \*L/etc/protocols\*O file is
reached.
.PP
Upon successful completion for \*Lgetprotobynumber_r(\|)\*O, a value
of 0
(zero) is returned.
Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occurs, the \*Lgetprotobynumber_r(\|)\*O
function sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.PP
.VL
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vproto_data\*O or \*Vproto\*O parameter is invalid.
.LI "[ESRCH]"
The search failed.
.LE
.PP
In addition, if the function fails to open the file, it sets \*Lerrno\*O to
indicate the cause of the failure.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/protocols\*O"
The DARPA Internet network protocols name database file. Each
record in the file occupies a single line and has three fields: the
official protocol name, the protocol number,
and protocol aliases.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetprotobyname\*O(3),
\*Lgetprotoent\*O(3),
\*Lsetprotoent\*O(3),
\*Lendprotoent\*O(3).
.iX "getprotobynumber function"
.iX "getprotobynumber_r function"
.\" last para before NOTES section
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note.
.PP
The system searches either the local \*L/etc/protocols\*O file or the
NIS distributed networks file for the requested information.
To determine which file or files to search, and
in which order, the system uses the switches in the \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O file.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.EQ
delim off
.EN
