.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getprotoent.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 19:31:43 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH getprotoent 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetprotoent\*O, \*Lgetprotoent_r\*O \- Get a protocol entry
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <netdb.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lstruct protoent *getprotoent(void);
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint getprotoent_r(
.nL
	\*Lstruct protoent *\*Vproto\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct protoent_data *\*Vproto_data\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vproto\*L"
Points to the \*Lprotoent\*O structure.
.LI "\*Vproto_data\*O"
Is data for the protocols database.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getprotoent function"
.iX "getprotoent_r function"
.iX "protocol entry" "retrieving"
.iX "protocols file" "reading"
.iX "protocols file" "opening"
The \*Lgetprotoent(\|)\*O (get protocol entry) function retrieves
protocol information from the
\*L/etc/protocols\*O file.  The \*Lgetprotoent(\|)\*O function returns
a pointer to a
\*Lprotoent\*O structure,
which contains the fields for a line of information in the \*L/etc/protocols\*O
file.  The \*Lnetdb.h\*O header file
defines the \*Lprotoent\*O structure.
.PP
\*OAn application program can use the \*Lgetprotoent(\|)\*O function
to access a protocol name, its aliases, and protocol number.
Use the \*Lendprotoent(\|)\*O function
to close the \*L/etc/protocols\*O file.  Use the \*Lsetprotoent(\|)\*O
function to rewind.
.PP
The \*Lgetprotoent_r(\|)\*O function is the reentrant version of the
\*Lgetprotoent(\|)\*O function.  Upon successful completion, the
returned structure is pointed to by \*Vproto\*O.  Use the
\*Lsetprotoent_r(\|)\*O function to rewind and the
\*Lendprotoent_r(\|)\*O function to close.  The
\*Lnetdb.h\*O header file defines the \*Lprotoent\*O and
\*Lprotoent_data\*O structures.
.\" place before NOTES section
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note.
.PP
The system searches either the local \*L/etc/protocols\*O file or the
NIS distributed networks file for the requested information.
To determine which file or files to search, and
in which order, the system uses the switches in the \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O file.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Lgetprotoent(\|)\*O function return value points to static
data, which is overwritten by any
subsequently called functions using the same structure.
.PP
Before its first access by either the \*Lsetprotoent_r(\|)\*O or
\*Lgetprotoent_r(\|)\*O function, you must zero-fill the
\*Lprotoent_data\*O structure.
.PP
If the system is configured to access the protocols database
through NIS, the \*Lgetprotoent_r(\|)\*O  function may not
produce correct results if called from multiple threads.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lgetprotoent(\|)\*O function
returns a pointer to a \*Lprotoent\*O structure.
.PP
If an error occurs or the end of the file is reached, the
\*Lgetprotoent(\|)\*O
function returns a NULL pointer.
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lgetprotoent_r(\|)\*O function
returns a 0 (zero).  Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occurs, the \*Lgetprotoent_r(\|)\*O
function sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.VL
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vproto\*O or \*Vproto_data\*O parameter is invalid.
.LI "[ESRCH]"
The search failed.
.LE
.PP
In addition, if the function fails to open the file, it sets \*Lerrno\*O to
indicate the cause of the failure.
.SH FILES
.PP
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/protocols\*O"
\*OContains
protocol information.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetprotobynumber\*O(3),
\*Lgetprotobyname\*O(3),
\*Lsetprotoent\*O(3),
\*Lendprotoent\*O(3).
.iX "getprotoent function"
.iX "getprotoent_r function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
