.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getrpcent.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 10:46:59 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)getrpcent.3n 9.1 4/15/91
.\"
.TH getrpcent 3
.SH NAME
getrpcent, getrpcbynumber, getrpcbyname, setrpcent, endrpcent \- get rpc entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
.B #include </rpc/netdb.h>
.PP
.B struct rpcent *getrpcent()
.PP
.B struct rpcent *getrpcbynumber(\f2number\fP)
.B int \f2number\fP;
.PP
.B struct rpcent *getrpcbyname(\f2name\fP)
.B char *\f2name\fP;
.PP
.B setrpcent(\f2stayopen\fP)
.br
.B int \f2stayopen\fP;
.PP
.B endrpcent( )
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getrpcent subroutine"
.iX "getrpcbynumber subroutine"
.iX "getrpcbyname subroutine"
.iX "setrpcent subroutine"
.iX "endrpcent subroutine"
.iX "group file (general)" "getting entry"
The \*Lgetrpcent\*O, \*Lgetrpcbynumber\*O and \*Lgetrpcbyname\*O subroutines
each return pointers
to an object
with the following structure
containing the broken-out
fields of a line in the rpc database:
.oS
struct  rpcent {               /* see getrpcent(3) */
        char    *r_name;
        char    **r_aliases;   /* alias list */
        char    r_number;      /* rpc program number */
};
struct group *getrpcent(), *getrpcbynumber(), *getrpcbyname();
.oE
.PP
The members of this structure are:
.TP \w'r_aliases'u+2n
r_name
The name of the rpc.
.br
.ns
.TP \w'_aliases'u+2n
r_aliases
A zero-terminated list of alternate names for the rpc.
.br
.ns
.TP \w'r_aliases'u+2n
r_number
The rpc program number for the rpc.
.PP
If the \f2stayopen\fP flag on the \*Lsetrpcent\*O subroutine
is NULL, the \*Lrpc\*O database
is opened.  Otherwise the \*Lsetrpcent\*O
has the effect of rewinding the \*Lrpc\*O database.
The \*Lendrpcent\*O may be called to
close the \*Lrpc\*O file when processing is complete.
.PP
The \*Lgetrpcent\*O subroutine simply reads the next
line while \*Lgetrpcbynumber\*O and \*Lgetrpcbyname\*O search
until a matching
\*Vgid\*O
or
\*Vname\*O
is found
(or until EOF is encountered).
The \*Lgetrpcent\*O subroutine keeps a pointer in the database, allowing
successive calls to be used
to search the entire file.
.PP
A call to \*Lsetrpcent\*O must be made before a \*Lwhile\*O
loop using \*Lgetrpcent\*O
in order to perform initialization and an \*Lendrpcent\*O
must be used after the loop.  Both \*Lgetrpcbynumber\*O
and \*Lgetrpcbyname\*O make calls to \*Lsetrpcent\*O and \*Lendrpcent\*O.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
.iX "getrpcent subroutine" "restrictions"
All information
is contained in a static area
so it must be copied if it is
to be saved.
.PP
If NIS (formerly YP) is running, \*Lgetrpcent\*O does not return the
entries in any particular order. See the
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
for NIS setup information.
.PP
The \*Lrpc\*O information is stored locally in \*L/etc/rpc\*O or
is distributed by NIS, or both.
To determine which file or files to search, and
in which order, the system uses the switches in the \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O file.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
A null pointer
(0) is returned on EOF or error.
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/etc/rpc\*O
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lrpc*\O(4), \*Lsvc.conf\*O(4)
.\".br
.\".I Guide to the BIND/Hesiod Service
.\".br
.\".I Guide to the Yellow Pages Service
.EQ
delim off
.EN
