.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getservent.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 19:51:12 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH getservent 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetservent\*O, \*Lgetservent_r\*O \- Get a services file entry from the \*L/etc/services\*O file.
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.PP
\*L#include <netdb.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lstruct servent *getservent(void);
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint getservent_r(
.nL
	\*Lstruct servent *\*Vserv\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct servent_data *\*Vserv_data\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vserv\*O"
Points to the \*Lservent\*O structure.
.LI "\*Vserv_data\*O"
Is data for the services database.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getservent function"
.iX "getservent_r function"
.iX "services file" "opening"
.iX "services file" "reading next line"
The \*Lgetservent(\|)\*O (get service entry) function opens and
reads the next line of the
\*O/\*Letc/services\*O file.
.PP
\*OAn application program can use the \*Lgetservent(\|)\*O function
to retrieve information about network services and the protocol ports
they use.
.PP
The \*Lgetservent(\|)\*O function returns a pointer to a
\*Lservent\*O structure, which
contains fields for a line of information from the \*L/etc/services\*O
file.  The \*Lservent\*O structure is defined in the
\*Lnetdb.h\*O header file.
.PP
\*OThe \*L/etc/services\*O file remains open after a call by the
\*Lgetservent(\|)\*O
function.  Use the \*Lendservent(\|)\*O function
to close the \*L/etc/protocols\*O file.  Use the \*Lsetservent(\|)\*O
function to rewind.
.PP
The \*Lgetservent_r(\|)\*O function is the reentrant version of the
\*Lgetservent(\|)\*O function.  Upon successful completion, the
returned structure is pointed to by \*Vserv\*O.  The
\*Lnetdb.h\*O header file defines the \*Lservent\*O and
\*Lservent_data\*O structures.
.\" Put before NOTES section
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note.
.PP
The system searches either the local \*L/etc/services\*O file or the
NIS distributed networks file for the requested information.
To determine which file or files to search, and
in which order, the system uses the switches in the \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O file.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Lgetservent(\|)\*O return value points to static data,
which is overwritten by any
subsequently called functions using the same structure.
.PP
Before its first access by the \*Lgetservent_r(\|)\*O function,
you must zero-fill the \*Lservent_data\*O structure.
.PP
If the system is configured to access the services database
through NIS, the \*Lgetservent_r(\|)\*O  function may not
produce correct results if called from multiple threads.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lgetservent(\|)\*O function returns
a pointer to a \*Lservent\*O
structure.
.PP
If an error occurs or the end of the file is reached, the \*Lgetservent(\|)
\*Ofunction returns a NULL pointer.
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lgetservent_r(\|)\*O function
returns a value of 0 (zero).  Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occurs, the \*Lgetservent_r(\|)\*O
function sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.PP
.VL
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vserv\*O or \*Vserv_data\*O parameter is invalid.
.LI "[ESRCH]"
The search failed.
.LE
.PP
In addition, if the function fails to open the file, it sets \*Lerrno\*O to
indicate the cause of the failure.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/services\*O"
The DARPA Internet network service name database file. Each record
in the file occupies a single line and has four fields: the
official service name, the port number, the protocol name, and aliases.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetservbyport\*O(3),
\*Lgetservbyname\*O(3),
\*Lendservent\*O(3),
\*Lsetservent\*O(3).
.iX "getservent function"
.iX "getservent_r function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
