.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getservbyport.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 19:45:43 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH getservbyport 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetservbyport\*O, \*Lgetservbyport_r\*O \- Get a service entry by port number
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library \*L(libc.a)\*O
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.PP
\*L#include <netdb.h>
.PP
\*Lstruct servent *getservbyport\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vport\*L,
.nL
	\*Lconst char *\*Vproto\*L);
.PP
\*Lint getservbyport_r\*L(\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vport\*L,
.nL
	\*Lconst char *\*Vproto\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct servent *\*Vserv\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct servent_data *\*Vserv_data\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vport"
\*OSpecifies the port number where the service is located.
.LI "\*Vproto"
\*OSpecifies the protocol name to use when contacting the service.
.LI "\*Vserv\*O"
Points to the \*Lservent\*O structure.
.LI "\*Vserv_data\*O"
Is data for the services database.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getservbyport function"
.iX "getservbyport_r function"
.iX "service entry" "returning by port"
.iX "services file" "searching by port"
The
\*Lgetservbyport(\|)\*O function returns a pointer to a structure of
type
\*Lservent\*O. Its members specify data in fields from a record line in the
\*L/etc/services\*O network services database file. The \*Lnetdb.h\*O header
file defines the \*Lservent\*O structure.
.PP
The
\*Lgetservbyport(\|)\*O function searches the \*L/etc/services\*O file sequentially
until a match with the \*Vport\*O parameter and with the \*Vproto\*O
parameter occurs. When used, the \*Vproto\*O parameter must specify
the \*L/etc/services\*O file protocol name. When a port number is not used
(the \*Vport\*O parameter is NULL), the \*Vport\*O parameter need
not be matched during the \*L/etc/services\*O file record search. When EOF
(End-of-File) is reached without a match, an error value is returned
by this function.
.PP
The
\*Lgetservbyport(\|)\*O function searches the \*L/etc/services\*O
file sequentially until one of the following occurs:
.ML
.LI
\*OA service port number and protocol name match.
.LI
\*OA service protocol name matches when the \*Vport\*O parameter is
set to NULL.
.LI
\*OThe end of the file is reached.
.LE
.PP
\*OUse the \*Lendservent(\|)\*O function to close the \*L/etc/services\*O
file.
.PP
The \*Lgetservbyport_r(\|)\*O is the reentrant version of the
\*Lgetservbyport(\|)\*O function.  When using the
\*Lgetservbyport_r(\|)\*O function, use the
\*Lendservent_r(\|)\*O function
to close the services file.  Upon successful completion, the returned
structure is
pointed to by \*Vserv\*O.  The
\*Lnetdb.h\*O header file defines the \*Lservent\*O and
\*Lserv_data\*O structures.
.\" put as last paragraph befor NOTES section
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note.
.PP
The system searches either the local \*L/etc/services\*O file or the
NIS distributed networks file for the requested information.
To determine which file or files to search, and
in which order, the system uses the switches in the \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O file.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH NOTES
.PP
\*OThe \*Lgetservbyport(\|)\*O return value points to static data,
which is overwritten by any
subsequently called functions using the same structure.
.PP
Before its first access by either the \*Lsetservent_r(\|)\*O or
\*Lgetservbyport_r(\|)\*O function, you must zero-fill the
\*Lservent_data\*O structure.
.\"
.\" Deleted per David Long for Sterling
.\"you must set to NULL the
.\"\*Lserv_fp\*O field of the \*Lservent_data\*O structure.
.\"In addition, the \*L_serv_stayopen\*O flag of the \*Lservent_data\*O
.\"structure must
.\"be initialized if the \*Lsetservent(\|)\*O function is \*Vnot\*O used.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lgetservbyport(\|)\*O function returns
a pointer to a \*Lservent\*O structure.
A NULL pointer is returned when
an error occurs or whenever the end of the \*L/etc/services\*O file is
reached.
.PP
Upon successful completion for \*Lgetservbyport_r(\|)\*O, a value of 0 (zero)
is returned.
Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occurs, the \*Lgetservbyport_r(\|)\*O
function sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.PP
.VL
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vserv\*O or \*Vserv_data\*O parameter is invalid.
.LI "[ESRCH]"
The search failed.
.LE
.PP
In addition, if the function fails to open the file, it sets \*Lerrno\*O to
indicate the cause of the failure.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 1i
.LI "\*L/etc/services\*O"
The DARPA Internet network service name database file. Each record
in the file occupies a single line and has four fields: the
official service name, the port number, the protocol name, and aliases.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetservbyname\*O(3),
\*Lgetservent\*O(3),
\*Lsetservent\*O(3),
\*Lendservent\*O(3).
.iX "getservbyport function"
.iX "getservbyport_r function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
