.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @OSF_COPYRIGHT@
.\" HISTORY
.TH getsubopt 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetsubopt\*O - Parses suboptions from a command line
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lint getsubopt (
.nL
	char **\*Voptionp\*L\|,
.nL
	char *\*Vtokens\*L\|[\|],
.nL
	char **\*Vvaluep\*L\| );
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Voptionp\*O"
Specifies the address of a pointer to the option string.
.LI "\*Vtokens[]\*O"
Specifies an array of possible suboption tokens.
.LI "\*Vvaluep\*O"
Specifies the address of a value string pointer.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lgetsubopt(\|)\*O function
parses command line suboptions.
.iX "getsubopt function"
A suboption, is defined as a comma separated
list of tokens or token-value pairs.  Tokens are separated from their values
with an equal sign.  An example of this syntax is found in the
\*Lmount\*O
command.  The following example contains three suboptions:
\*Lro\*O, \*Lnosuid\*O,
and
\*Lrsize\*O.
The \*Lrsize\*O suboption
is a token-value pair with a value of 8192.
.iS
mount -o ro,nosuid,rsize=8192 paradox:/u2 /u2
.iE
.PP
Because commas and equal signs are used to separate suboptions, and
token-value pairs, neither is allowed to be part of the suboption.
.PP
When a suboption is found in the
\*L*\*Voptionp\*O
string that matches a string in the
\*Vtoken\*O
array, the index of the matching string in the array is returned.  If no match
is found, then a -1 is returned.  After each match, the
\*L*\*Voptionp\*O
string is updated to point past the matched suboption to the next suboption in
the list.  If the suboption matched is the last in the string,
\*L*\*Voptionp\*O
is set to the null pointer.
If the suboption matched is a token-value pair, then
\*L*\*Vvaluep\*O
is set to point to the value.  If there is no value, then
\*L*\*Vvaluep\*O
is to the null pointer.
.PP
The
\*Vtoken\*O
array is a list of pointers to strings.  The end of the array is signified
by a NULL pointer.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lgetsubopt()\*O function returns the
index of the
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" revised the following sentence for claification
token or suboption
that matches the suboption in the input string.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
Otherwise, if no match is found, it returns a value of -1.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
No errors are defined for this routine.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lgetopt(3)\*O
.\" End Digital-specific information
.EQ
delim off
.EN
