.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getstr.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/15 18:45:30 $
.\"
.TH getstr 3
.SH NAME
\*Lgetstr\*O, \*Lmvgetstr\*O, \*Lmvwgetstr\*O, \*Lwgetstr\*O \- Reads a string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O

\*Lint getstr(\*Vstr\*L)
    char \(**\*Vstr\*L;\*O

\*Lint wgetstr(\*Vwin\*L, \*Vstr\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L;
    char \(**\*Vstr\*L;\*O

\*Lint mvgetstr(\*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L, \*Vstr\*L)
    int \*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L;
    char \(**\*Vstr\*L;\*O

\*Lint mvwgetstr(\*Vwin\*L, \*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L, \*Vstr\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L;
    int \*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L;
    char \(**\*Vstr\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "mvgetstr macro"
.iX "mvwgetstr macro"
.iX "wgetstr subroutine"
The \*Lgetstr\*O routine reads characters from the terminal
associated with the default window and stores them in a
buffer until a carriage return or newline is received from
\*Lstdscr\*O.  The routine \*Lgetch B\*O
is called by \*Lgetstr\*O to read each character.
.PP
The routine \*Lwgetstr\*O reads characters from the
terminal associated with the specified window.
The characters are read from the current cursor position
until a newline or carriage return is received.
.PP
The routine \*Lmvgetstr\*O reads characters
from the terminal associated with the default window.
The characters are read from the specified cursor position
until a newline or carriage return is received.
.PP
The routine \*Lmvwgetstr\*O reads characters
from the terminal associated with the specified window.
The characters are read from the specified cursor position
until a newline or carriage return is received.
.PP
The following information applies to all the routines.
.PP
The resulting string is placed in the area
pointed to by the character pointer \*Lstr\*O.
The user's erase and kill characters are interpreted.
The area used to hold the string is
assumed to be large enough to handle it, as \*Lgetstr\*O
does not check for buffer overflow.
If the area is not large enough, the result will be unpredictable.
.PP
The routines \*Lgetstr\*O, \*Lmvgetstr\*O, and \*Lmvwgetstr\*O
are macros.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lgetstr\*O, \*Lmvgetstr\*O, \*Lmvwgetstr\*O, and \*Lwgetstr\*O
functions return OK on success and ERR on error.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lgetch\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
