.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getsvc.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/07 22:41:00 $
.\"
.TH getsvc 3
.SH NAME
\*Lgetsvc\*O \- Gets a pointer to the svcinfo structure.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L#include <sys/svcinfo.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lstruct svcinfo *getsvc()\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getsvc call"
The \*Lgetsvc\*O call retrieves information from the system about the
\*Lsvcinfo \*O structure by returning a pointer to the structure.  This
structure is initialized the first time a \*Lgetsvc\*O call is made.
The contents of the \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O file are parsed and stored in the
\*Lsvcinfo\*O structure.  If the \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O file is modified, the
contents of this structure will be updated upon the next \*Lgetsvc\*O call.
.PP
The \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O file contains the names of the databases that can be
served by BIND or local files and the name service selection for
each database.  It also has settings for four security parameters.
The database service selection and security parameters are stored
in the \*Lsvcinfo\*O structure.
.PP
The following structure exists in the \*L<svcinfo.h>\*O file:
.oS
#define SVC_DATABASES 20
#define SVC_PATHSIZE 8
struct svcinfo {
    int svcdate;       /* Last mod date of /etc/svc.conf */

    int svcpath[SVC_DATABASES][SVC_PATHSIZE];    /* indexed by
                          databases and choice 0=first choice
	                  1=second choice, etc value stored is
			  source */

       struct {
           int passlenmin;
           int passlenmax;
           int softexp;
           int seclevel;
       } svcauth;
};
.oE
.PP
The \*Lsvcdate \*O field contains the date that the \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O
file was last modified.  The \*Lsvcpath\*O array contains the name
service choices for each database.  The \*Lsvcauth\*O
structure contains the values for the four security parameters:
password length minimum (\*Vpasslenmin\*O), password length maximum
(\*Vpasslenmax\*O), soft expiration date of a password (\*Vsoftexp\*O),
and security mode of a system (\*Vseclevel\*O).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following programming example shows how to use the \*Lgetsvc\*O
call to use the information in the \*Lsvcinfo\*O
structure to process specific host information.
.oS
#include <sys/svcinfo.h>
struct svcinfo *svcinfo;

if ((svcinfo = getsvc()) != NULL)
  for (i=0; (j = svcinfo->svcpath[SVC_HOSTS][i]) != SVC_LAST; i++)
	 switch(j) {
	     case SVC_BIND:
	         /* process BIND hosts */
	     case SVC_YP:
	         /* process YP hosts */
	     case SVC_LOCAL:
		 /* process LOCAL hosts */
	 }
.oE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 10m
.LI "\*L/etc/svc.conf\*O"
.LI "\*L/usr/include/sys/svcinfo.h\*O"
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lsvc.conf\*O(4), \*Lsvcsetup\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
