.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getservbyname.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 19:38:04 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH getservbyname 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetservbyname\*O, \*Lgetservbyname_r\*O \- Get a service entry by name
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library \*L(libc.a)\*O
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.PP
\*L#include <netdb.h>
.PP
\*Lstruct servent *getservbyname\*L(\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char *\*Vname\*L,
.nL
	\*Lconst char *\*Vproto\*L);
.PP
\*Lint getservbyname_r\*L(\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char *\*Vname\*L,
.nL
	\*Lconst char *\*Vproto\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct servent *\*Vserv\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct servent_data *\*Vserv_data\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vname"
\*OSpecifies the official name or alias name of the service.
.LI "\*Vproto"
\*OSpecifies the name of the protocol to use when contacting the
service.
.LI "\*Vserv\*O"
Points to the \*Lservent\*O structure.
.LI "\*Vserv_data\*O"
Is data for the services database.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getservbyname function"
.iX "getservbyname_r function"
.iX "service entry" "returning by name"
.iX "services file" "searching by name"
The
\*Lgetservbyname(\|)\*O function
returns a pointer to a structure of type
\*Lservent\*O. Its members specify data in fields from a record line in the
\*L/etc/services\*O database file. The \*Lnetdb.h\*O header file defines
the \*Lservent\*O structure.
.PP
The
\*Lgetservbyname(\|)\*O function searches the \*L/etc/services\*O
file sequentially until a match with the \*Vname\*O
parameter and with the \*Vproto\*O parameter occurs. The
\*Vname\*O parameter can specify either the official name or its
alias. When EOF (End-of-File) is reached without the match, an
error value is returned by this subroutine. When the protocol
name is not specified (\*Vproto\*O parameter is NULL),
the \*Vproto\*O parameter need not be matched during the
\*L/etc/services\*O file record search.
.PP
The
\*Lgetservbyname(\|)\*O function searches the \*L/etc/services\*O
file sequentially until one of the following occurs:
.ML
.LI
\*OA service name and protocol name match.
.LI
\*OA service name matches while the \*Vproto\*O parameter is set to NULL.
.LI
\*OThe end of the \*L/etc/services\*O file is reached.
.LE
.PP
\*OUse the \*Lendservent(\|)\*O function to close the \*L/etc/services\*O
file.
.wH 0.rS
.PP
The \*Lgetservbyname_r(\|)\*O function is the reentrant version of the
\*Lgetservbyname(\|)\*O function.  When using the
\*Lgetservbyname_r(\|)\*O function, use the
\*Lendservent_r(\|)\*O function
to close the services file.  Upon successful completion, the returned
structure is
pointed to by \*Vserv\*O.  The
\*Lnetdb.h\*O header file defines the \*Lservent\*O and
\*Lservent_data\*O structures.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note.
.\" put as last paragraph before NOTES section
.PP
The system searches either the local \*L/etc/services\*O file or the
NIS distributed networks file for the requested information.
To determine which file or files to search, and
in which order, the system uses the switches in the \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O file.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH NOTES
.PP
\*OThe \*Lgetservbyname(\|)\*O return value points to static data,
which is overwritten by any
subsequently called functions using the same structure.
.PP
Before its first access by either the \*Lsetservent_r(\|)\*O or
\*Lgetservbyname_r(\|)\*O function, you must zero-fill the
\*Lservent_data\*O structure.
.\"
.\" Deleted at request of David Long
.\" set to NULL the
.\"\*Lserv_fp\*O field of the \*Lservent_data\*O structure.  In
.\"addition, the \*L_serv_stayopen\*O flag of the \*Lservent_data\*O
.\"structure must
.\"be initialized if the \*Lsetservent(\|)\*O function is \*Vnot\*O used.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lgetservbyname(\|)\*O function
returns a pointer to a \*Lservent\*O structure.
A NULL pointer is returned when an
error occurs or whenever the end of the \*L/etc/services\*O file is reached.
.PP
Upon successful completion for \*Lgetservbyname_r(\|)\*O, a value of 0 (zero)
is returned.
Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occurs, the \*Lgetservbyname(\|)\*O
function sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.VL
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vserv\*O or \*Vserv_data\*O parameter is invalid.
.LI "[ESRCH]"
The search failed.
.LE
.PP
In addition, if the function fails to open the file, it sets \*Lerrno\*O to
indicate the cause of the failure.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 1i
.LI "\*L/etc/services\*O"
The DARPA Internet network service-name database. Each record
in the file occupies a single line and has four fields: the
official service name, the port reference, protocol name, and aliases.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetservbyport\*O(3),
\*Lgetservent\*O(3),
\*Lsetservent\*O(3),
\*Lendservent\*O(3).
.iX "getservbyname function"
.iX "getservbyname_r function"
.\" End Digital-specific information
.EQ
delim off
.EN
