.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: gets.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/24 18:54:00 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH gets 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgets\*O, \*Lfgets\*O \- Get a string from a stream
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard I/O Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <stdio.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lchar \(**gets(
.\" .zA "defect, 7508, R1.1.2, Removed erroneous const"
.nL
        \*Lchar \(**\*Vstring\*L);\*O
.\" .zZ "defect, 7508, R1.1.2, Removed erroneous const"
.PP
\*Lchar *fgets(
.\" .zA "defect, 7508, R1.1.2, Removed erroneous const"
.nL
        char *\*Vstring\*L,
.\" .zZ "defect, 7508, R1.1.2, Removed erroneous const"
.nL
        int \*Vn\*L,
.nL
        FILE *\*Vstream\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vstring\*O"
Points to a string to receive bytes.
.LI "\*Vn\*O"
Specifies an upper bound on the number of bytes to read.
.LI "\*Vstream\*O"
Points to the \*LFILE\*O structure of an open file.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "gets function"
.iX "fgets function"
.iX "stream" "getting a string from stdin"
.iX "string" "getting from a stream"
The \*Lgets(\|)\*O function reads bytes from the standard
input stream, \*Lstdin\*O, into the array pointed to by the
\*Vstring\*O parameter. Data is read until a newline character is read
or an End-of-File condition is encountered. If reading is stopped
due to a newline character, the newline character is discarded and
the string is terminated with a NULL character.
.PP
The \*Lfgets(\|)\*O function reads bytes from the data pointed
to by the \*Vstream\*O parameter into the array pointed to by the \*Vstring\*O
parameter. Data is read until \*Vn\*O-1
bytes have been read, until a newline character is read and
transferred to \*Vstring\*O, or until an EOF (End-of-File) condition
is encountered. The string is then terminated with a NULL character.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use.
.LE
.SH CAUTIONS
.PP
The \*Lgets(\|)\*O function does not check the input for a maximum
size. Consequently, if more bytes are entered than will fit in
the space allocated for the \*Vstring\*O parameter, \*Lgets(\|)\*O
will write beyond the end of the allocated space, producing
indeterminate results. To avoid this condition, use
\*Lfgets(\|)\*O instead of \*Lgets(\|)\*O.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If the end of the file is encountered and no characters have been
read, no characters are transferred to \*Vstring\*O and a NULL
pointer is returned. If a read error occurs, a NULL pointer
is returned. Otherwise, \*Vstring\*O is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lclearerr\*O(3),
\*Lfeof\*O(3),
\*Lferror\*O(3),
\*Lfgetws\*O(3),
\*Lfileno\*O(3),
\*Lfopen\*O(3),
\*Lfputws\*O(3),
\*Lfread\*O(3),
\*Lgetc\*O(3),
\*Lgetwc\*O(3),
\*Lputs\*O(3),
\*Lscanf\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
