.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1989 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.   The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"  
.\" @(#)getttyent.3	6.6 (Berkeley) 6/23/90
.\" 
.TH getttyent 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetttyent\*O, \*Lgetttyent_r\*O, \*Lgetttynam\*O, \*Lgetttynam_r\*O, \*Lsetttyent\*O, \*Lsetttyent_r\*O, \*Lendttyent\*O, \*Lendttyent_r\*O \- Get a \*L/etc/securettys\*O file entry
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <ttyent.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lstruct ttyent *getttyent ( void );
.PP
\*Lint getttyent_r(
.nL
	\*Lstruct ttyent *\*Vtte\*L,
.nL
	\*Lchar *\*Vbuf\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vlen\*L,
.nL
	\*LFILE **\*Vtty_fp\*L);
.PP
\*Lstruct ttyent *getttynam(
.nL
	\*Lconst char *\*Vname\*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint getttynam_r(
.nL
	\*Lconst char *\*Vname\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct ttyent *\*Vtte\*L,
.nL
	\*Lchar *\*Vbuf\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vlen\*L);
.PP
\*Lint setttyent(void);
.PP
\*Lint setttyent_r(
.nL
	\*LFILE **\*Vtty_fp\*L);
.PP
\*Lvoid endttyent(void);
.PP
\*Lvoid endttyent_r(
.nL
	\*LFILE **\*Vtty_fp\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vtte\*O"
Points to the \*Lttyent\*O structure.
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Specifies the name of the requested tty description.
.LI "\*Vbuf\*O"
Is data for the tty.
.LI "\*Vlen\*O"
Specifies the length of \*Vbuf\*O.
.LI "\*Vtty_fp\*O"
Specifies a secure ttys file stream.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getttyent function"
.iX "getttyent_r function"
.iX "getttynam function"
.iX "getttynam_r function"
.iX "setttyent function"
.iX "endttyent function"
.iX "setttyent_r function"
.iX "endttyent_r function"
The \*Lgetttyent(\|)\*O
and \*Lgetttynam(\|)\*O functions
each return a pointer to an object that has the following \*Lttyent\*O
fields.  This fields
describe a line from the secure tty description
file.
.PP
The members of the structure include the following:
.VL
.LI "\*Lty_name\*O"
Name of the character-special file.
.LI "\*Lty_getty\*O"
The string "none".
.LI "\*Lty_type\*O"
The string "none".
.LI "\*Lty_status\*O"
A mask of bit fields. The \*LTTY_SECURE\*O flag indicates users
with a user ID of 0 (zero) are allowed to log in on this terminal.
.LI "\*Lty_window\*O"
A NULL pointer
.LI "\*Lty_comment\*O"
A NULL pointer.
.LE
.PP
If any of the fields pointing to character strings are unspecified,
they are returned as NULL pointers.
The field \*Lty_status\*O
will be 0 (zero) if root logins are not allowed.
.PP
The \*Lgetttyent(\|)\*O function
reads the next line from the tty file, opening the file if necessary.
The \*Lsetttyent(\|)\*O function
rewinds the file if open, or opens the file if it is unopened.
The \*Lendttyent(\|)\*O function
closes any open files.
.PP
The \*Lgetttynam(\|)\*O function
searches from the beginning of the file until a matching \*Vname\*O
is found
or until EOF (End-Of-File) is encountered.
.PP
The \*Lgetttyent_r(\|)\*O, \*Lsetttyent_r(\|)\*O,
\*Lendttyent_r(\|)\*O, and \*Lgetttynam_r(\|)\*O
functions are the
reentrant versions of the \*Lgetttyent(\|)\*O, \*Lsetttyent(\|)\*O,
\*Lendttyent(\|)\*O, and \*Lgetttynam(\|)\*O
functions.  Upon successful completion, both the \*Lgetttyent_r(\|)\*O and
\*Lgetttynam_r(\|)\*O functions store the pointer
to a \*Lttyent\*O structure in \*Vtte\*O.
.SH NOTES
.PP
These functions exist for compatibility with earlier systems.
.PP
For the \*Lgetttyent(\|)\*O, \*Lsetttyent(\|)\*O,
\*Lendttyent(\|)\*O, and \*Lgetttynam(\|)\*O functions,
all information is contained in a static area so it must be copied if
it is to be saved.
.PP
The \*L*\*Vtty_fp\*O parameter should be initialized to
NULL by the user
before the first call.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lgetttyent(\|)\*O and \*Lgetttynam(\|)\*O
functions return pointer \*Vtte\*O.
When a failure or EOF occurs, the
\*Lgetttyent(\|)\*O
and
\*Lgetttynam(\|)\*O functions
return a NULL pointer.
Upon successful completion, the \*Lsetttyent(\|)\*O function returns a
value of 1.  Otherwise, the \*Lsetttyent(\|)\*O function returns 0 (zero).
.PP
The \*Lgetttyent_r(\|)\*O, \*Lgetttynam_r(\|)\*O,
and \*Lsetttyent_r(\|)\*O functions return a value of 0
(zero) for success, and a value of -1 for failure.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occurs, the \*Lgetttyent_r(\|)\*O
or \*Lgetttynam_r(\|)\*O
functions set \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.VL
.LI "[ESRCH]"
The search failed.
.LE
.PP
In addition, if any of the following conditions occurs, the
\*Lgetttyent_r(\|)\*O
or \*Lsetttyent_r(\|)\*O
functions set \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.VL
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vtty_fp\*O, \*Vtte\*O, or \*Vbuf\*O parameter is invalid, or the
\*Vlen\*O parameter is
too small.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/etc/securettys\*O
Contains the terminal control database file.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands:
\*Llogin\*O(1)
.PP
Files: \*Lsecurettys\*O(4).
.iX "getttyent function"
.iX "getttyent_r function"
.iX "getttynam function"
.iX "getttynam_r function"
.iX "setttyent function"
.iX "endttyent function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
