.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: gettxt.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/08 15:49:29 $
.\"
.TH gettxt 3
.SH NAME
.PP
gettxt - return the session ID of the terminal
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <unistd.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lchar *gettxt (\*L
.nL
         const char \*V*msgid\*L
.nL
         const char \*V*dflt_str );\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*V*msgid\*O"
Specifies the message identification text string.  The format
of this string is discussed in more detail below.
.LI "\*Vdflt_str\*O"
Specifies the default string to use if the text string is
not found.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A message file is a catalog of text strings that can be accessed
.iX "gettxt function"
for use by other programs.  Message files are created using
the \*Lgencat\*O(1) and \*Lmkcatdefs\*O(1) commands.
The function, \*Lgettxt\*O, searches a message file for a
specified text string.  If the text string is available, this
information is returned.  If attempts to retrieve the text
string do not succeed, the specified default text string is used.
.PP
You can request that messages be displayed in a specific
language by setting environment variables.  Likewise, you can
also change the language in which the messages are displayed
by invoking the \*Lsetlocale\*O(3) function with the appropriate
arguments.
.PP
To obtain a text string, you must use the following format when
specifying the \*Vmsgid\*O parameter:
.PP
.sS
[\*Vmsgfilename\*O]:\*Vmsgnumber\*O
.sE
.PP
The arguments are defined as follows:
.VL
.LI "\*Vmsgfilename\*O"
Specifies the message database that contains the localized version of the
text string.  Characters in the text string can be any set of characters
excluding null (\0), the ASCII symbols for slash (/), and the colon (:).
.LI "\*Vmsgnumber\*O"
Specified as a positive number only, this argument denotes the index
of the text string in the message database.
.LE
.PP
If the text string specified does not exist in the locale, or if the
message number exceeds its bounds, attempts are made to retrieve this
message from the C locale.  Should the second attempt be
unsuccessful, the text string specified by the \*Vdflt_str\*O is used.
.SH RETURN VALUES 
.PP
The statement \*LMessage not found!!\\n\*O is returned if the value for
the \*Vmsgfilename\*O argument is invalid, a catalog number has
not been specified, the value for \*Vmsgnumber\*O is not a positive
number, or a message could not be retrieved and the \*Vdflt_str\*O
parameter was not specified.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
On this operating system, the \*Lgettxt\*O function parses the
directory local as described on the \*Lcatopen\*O(3) and
\*Lcatgets\*O(3) reference pages.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
There are no errors defined for this routine.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lgencat\*O(1), \*Lmkcatdefs\*O(1).
.PP
Functions: \*Lcatgets\*O(3), \*Lcatopen\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
