.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: gettimer.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/28 14:08:33 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH gettimer 3
.SH NAME
\*Lgettimer\*O \- Gets date and time
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/time.h>
.PP
\*Lint gettimer(
.nL
	\*Ltimer_t \*Vtimerid,
.nL
	\*Lstruct itimerspec\*O *\*Vtp\*O) ;\*L
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vtimerid\*O"
Specifies the timer to get the current time from; only time
TIMEOFDAY is supported.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vtp\*O" 
\*OPoints to a \*Litimerspec\*O structure.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "gettimer function"
.iX "date and time" "returning"
.iX "system clock" "returning current value"
The \*Lgettimer(\|)\*O function gets the current value of a system
time-of-day clock. The \*Vtimerid\*O parameter specifies the
symbolic name that identifies the timer whose time is being monitored. Only one
symbolic name may be specified: TIMEOFDAY, which returns the CUT
(Coordinated Universal Time) time and date.  The \*Vtp\*O parameter
points to a
type \*Litimerspec\*O structure, which has members that specify the
elapsed time and date in nanoseconds from 00:00:00 UCT, January 1,
1970.  The \*Vtp\*O structure is defined in the \*Lsys/time.h\*O
include file.
.PP
\*OActual resolution of a timer is determined by the basic system hardware
clock period, which is 1/HZ. The \*Lrestimer\*O function returns the
resolution for any particular system.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Trial use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the \*Lgettimer(\|)\*O function
returns the value 0 (zero). Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.PP
.SH ERRORS
\*OIf the \*Lgettimer(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to the following value:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vtimerid\*O parameter does not specify a known timer.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lgettimeofday\*O(2),
\*Lgetitimer\*O(2)
.iX "gettimer function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
