.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getvfsbyname.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/21 19:16:38 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\" 
.TH getvfsbyname 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetvfsbyname\*O \- Gets the virtual file system type number
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/mount.h>\*O
.nL
\*Lint getvfsbyname\*O(
.nL
	\*Lconst char \*V*typename\*O);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vtypename\*O"
A pointer to a virtual file system type name.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getvfsbyname function"
The \*Lgetvfsbyname(\|)\*O function returns the type number of the
virtual system type identified by \*Vtypename\*O.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Lgetvfsbyname(\|)\*O function may not be able to
handle file systems that are
dynamically loaded.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, \*Lgetvfsbyname(\|)\*O returns
an integer value between MOUNT_NONE and MOUNT_MAXTYPE that identifies
the
file system type. Otherwise, \*Lgetvfsbyname(\|)\*O returns a value of -1 and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occurs, the \*Lgetvfsbyname(\|)\*O
function sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.VL
.LI "[EFAULT]"
The \*Vtypename\*O argument is not a valid pointer.
.LI "[ENOMEM]"
Memory cannot be allocated.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lgetvfsbynumber\*O(3), \*Lstatfs\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
