.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getvfsbynumber.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/21 19:17:41 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH getvfsbynumber 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetvfsbynumber\*O \- Gets the virtual file system type name
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/mount.h>\*O
.nL
\*Lchar *getvfsbynumber\*O(
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vtypeno\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vtypeno\*O"
Specifies the number that identifies the type of the file system.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getvfsbynumber function"
The \*Lgetvfsbynumber(\|)\*O function
returns the symbolic name for the virtual file
system type identified by \*Vtypeno\*O. The type number of a mounted
file system can be determined with the \*Lstatfs(\|)\*O function.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Lgetvfsbynumber(\|)\*O function may not be able to
handle file systems that are dynamically loaded.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, \*Lgetvfsbynumber(\|)\*O returns a symbolic
name.  Otherwise,
\*Lgetvfsbynumber(\|)\*O returns a value of -1 and sets \*Lerrno\*O.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occurs, the \*Lgetvfsbynumber(\|)\*O
function sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.VL
.LI "[EINVAL]"
\*Vtypeno\*O is outside the range of known file system types.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lstatfs\*O(2), \*Lgetvfsbyname\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
