.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getwch.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/16 00:09:00 $
.\"
.TH getwch 3
.SH NAME
\*Lgetwch\*O, \*Lwgetwch\*O, \*Lmvgetwch\*O, \*Lmvwgetwch\*O, \*Lungetwch\*O \- Read (or push back) a wchar_t character from curses terminal keyboard
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
The \*Lcurses\*O library (\*Llibcurses.so\*O, \*Llibcurses.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint getwch(\|);\*O
.PP
\*Lint wgetwch( WINDOW \(**\*Vwin \*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint mvgetwch(
.br
        int \*Vy\*L,
.br
        int \*Vx \*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint mvwgetwch(
.br
        WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L,
.br
        int \*Vy\*L,
.br
        int \*Vx \*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint ungetwch( int \*Vwch\*L );\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vwch\*O"
Specifies the wide character to be pushed back to the input queue.
.LI "\*Vwin\*O"
Specifies a \*Lcurses\*O window. If not specified, the
window is the default window \*Lstdscr\*O.
.LI "\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O"
Specifies the line (\*Vy\*O) and column (\*Vx\*O)
coordinates of the target position on the window.
If coordinates are not specified, the target
position is the current position of the logical cursor.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getwch macro"
.iX "mvgetwch macro"
.iX "mvwgetwch macro"
.iX "wgetwch subroutine"
.iX "ungetwch subroutine"
The \*Lgetwch\*O routine reads a wchar_t character from the
terminal associated with the default window.
.PP
The \*Lwgetwch\*O routine reads a wchar_t character from
the terminal associated with the specified window \*Vwin\*O.
.PP
The \*Lmvgetwch\*O routine reads a wchar_t character from
the terminal associated with the default window at the specified
position (\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O).
.PP
The \*Lmvwgetwch\*O routine reads a wchar_t character from
the terminal associated with the specified
window \*Vwin\*O at the specified position (\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O).
.PP
The \*Lungetwch\*O routine pushes a wchar_t character \*Vwch\*O
back to the input queue
to be returned by the next call to \*Lwgetwch\*O.
.PP
The following information applies to all the routines.
In \*Lnodelay\*O mode, if there is no input waiting, the integer
\*LERR\*O is returned.  In \*Ldelay\*O mode,
the program waits until the system passes text through to the program.
Usually the program restarts after being passed one character or
the first newline, depending on how the program has set \*Lcbreak\*O.
The system echos the character on the designated window unless
the program has set \*Lnoecho\*O.
.PP
If the program sets \*Lkeypad\*O to \*LTRUE\*O and the user presses
a function key, \*Lcurses\*O returns the token for that function
key instead of the raw characters to the program.
Possible function keys are defined using integers beginning with 0401 in the
\*Lcurses.h\*O header file.
The function key names begin with \*LKEY_\*O.
.PP
If the system receives a character that could be the beginning of a
function key (such as escape), \*Lcurses\*O sets a timer.
If the remainder of the sequence does not arrive within the
designated time, \*Lcurses\*O passes the character through to the program;
otherwise, \*Lcurses\*O returns the function key value.
Consequently, there may be a delay after a user presses the
escape key before the escape is returned to the program.
Because there is delay after the user presses the escape key, do not
use escape for a single character
function in your program.
.PP
The \*Lgetwch\*O, \*Lmvgetwch\*O, and \*Lmvwgetwch\*O
routines are macros.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lgetwch\*O, \*Lmvgetwch\*O, \*Lmvwgetwch\*O,
and \*Lwgetwch\*O routines return the character that has been read
to the program.
.PP
If delay mode is in effect and no data is available, \*LERR\*O is returned.
.PP
The \*Lungetwch\*O routine returns 
\*LERR\*O on error and an integer value other
than \*LERR\*O on success.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lcbreak\*O(3), \*Lkeypad\*O(3), \*Lnodelay\*O(3), \*Lnoecho\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
