.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getwc.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/29 19:11:27 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH getwc 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetwc\*O, \*Lgetwc_unlocked\*O, \*Lfgetwc\*O, \*Lgetwchar\*O \- Get a character or word from an input stream
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <wchar.h>
.sp 0.4v
wint_t getwc(
.nL
	FILE *\*Vstream\*L);
.sp 0.4v
wint_t getwc_unlocked(
.nL
	FILE *\*Vstream\*L);
.sp 0.4v
wint_t fgetwc(
.nL
	FILE *\*Vstream\*L);
.sp 0.4v
wint_t getwchar(void);\*L
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vstream"
\*OSpecifies the input data.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getwc function"
.iX "getwc_unlocked function"
.iX "fgetwc function"
.iX "getwchar function"
.iX "input stream" "getting character from"
.iX "input stream" "getting word from"
.iX "word" "getting from input stream"
.iX "character" "getting from input stream"
\*OThe \*Lgetwc(\|)\*O function gets the next wide character
from the input stream specified by the \*Vstream\*O parameter.
The \*Lfgetwc(\|)\*O
function performs the same function as \*Lgetwc(\|)\*O.
.PP
The \*Lgetwchar(\|)\*O function gets the next wide
character from the standard input stream.
.PP
The
\*Lgetwc_unlocked(\|)\*O
function is functionally identical to the
\*Lgetwc(\|)\*O function,
except that
\*Lgetwc_unlocked(\|)\*O
may be safely used only within a scope that
is protected by the
\*Lflockfile(\|)\*O and \*Lfunlockfile(\|)\*O functions used as a
pair.
The caller must ensure that the stream is locked before these
functions are used.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
These functions return the wide character read or
the constant \*LWEOF\*O (wide-character End-Of-File)
at the end of the file or upon an error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occur, the
\*fgetwc(\|)\*O, \*Lgetwc(\|)\*O, \*Lgetwc_unlocked(\|)\*O, and \*Lgetwchar(\|)\*O,
functions set \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.VL
.LI "[EAGAIN]"
The \*LO_NONBLOCK\*O flag is set for the underlying \*Vstream\*O and
the process would be delayed by the read operation.
.LI "[EBADF]"
The file descriptor underlying the \*Vstream\*O is not a valid file
descriptor or is not open for reading.
.LI "[EINTR]"
The read operation was interrupted by a signal which was caught and no
data was transferred.
.LI "[EIO]"
The call is attempting to read from the process's controlling terminal
and either the process is ignoring or blocking the \*LSIGTTIN\*O
signal or the process group is orphaned.
.LI "[ENOMEM]"
Insufficient memory is available for the operation.
.LI "[ENXIO]"
Device associated with \*Vstream\*O does not exist.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lfopen\*O(3),
\*Lfread\*O(3),
\*Lfgetws\*O(3),
\*Lgetc\*O(3),
\*Lgets\*O(3),
\*Lputwc\*O(3),
\*Lscanf\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
