.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getwd.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/18 13:12:59 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH getwd 3
.SH NAME
\*Lgetwd\*O \- Gets current directory pathname
.SH LIBRARY
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lchar *getwd (
.nL
	char *\*Vpath_name \*L);
.wH .rS
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vpath_name"
\*OPoints to the full pathname.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "getwd function"
.iX "directory" "returning pathname for current"
.PP 
The \*Lgetwd(\|)\*O function determines the absolute pathname
of the current directory, then copies that pathname into the area
pointed to by the \*Vpath_name\*O parameter.
.PP 
\*OThe maximum pathname length, in characters, is set by the PATH_MAX
definition, as specified in the \*Llimits.h \*Ofile.
.wH .rS
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion,
a pointer to the absolute pathname of the current directory is returned.
If an error occurs, the \*Lgetwd(\|)\*O function returns a value
of 0 (zero) and places a message in the \*Vpath_name\*O parameter.
.wH .rS
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lgetcwd\*O(3)
.iX "getwd function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
