.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH grantpt 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgrantpt\*O - Permits access to the slave pty
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library \*L(libc.a)\*O
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lint grantpt(
.nL
	int \*Vfildes\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vfildes\*O"
Specifies a file descriptor that is returned from a successful open
of a master pty.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "slave pty" "giving access to"
.iX "grantpt function"
In the System V Release 4
\*Lpty\*O name space, the \*Lgrantpt(\|)\*O function modifies the ownership and mode of the
slave pseudoterminal device associated with its master pseudoterminal
counterpart.
.PP
The modifications of mode and ownership are performed by the
\*Lsetuid(\|)\*O function in the following way:
.ML
.LI
The group ID is set to a reserved group.
.LI
The slave user ID is set to the effective owner of the calling process.
.LI
The permissions of the slave device are set so that
the owner is allowed read and write access and the group is allowed
write access.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lgrantpt(\|)\*O function returns
a value of 0 (zero). Otherwise, it returns a value of -1.
.PP
Failure may result under the following conditions:
.ML
.LI
The file descriptor specified by the \*Vfildes\*O parameter is not
associated with a master device.
.LI
The file descriptor specified by the \*Vfildes\*O parameter is not an open
file descriptor.
.LI
The corresponding slave device cannot be accessed.
.LE
.P
The \*Lgrantpt(\|)\*O function may also fail if the application has
installed a signal handler to catch \*LSIGCHLD\*O (death of a child)
signals.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lopen\*O(2),
\*Lptsname\*O(3),
\*Lsetuid\*O(2),
\*Lunlockpt\*O(3).
.PP
Guides: 
\*ESystem V Compatibility User's Guide\*O
.iX "chgpt command"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
