.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: hostalias.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 22:31:45 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH hostalias 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lhostalias\*O \- Searches for host aliases
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.nL
\*L#include <netinet/in.h>\*O
.nL
\*L#include <arpa/nameser.h>\*O
.nL
\*L#include <resolv.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lchar *hostalias\*O(\*L
.nL
        \*Lchar *\*Vname\*L);
.sp .4v
\*Lint hostalias_r\*O(\*L
.nL
        \*Lchar *\*Vname\*L,
.nL
        \*Lchar *\*Vbuf\*L,
.nL
        \*Lint \*Vlen\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Points to
the name of the host to retrieve aliases for.
.LI "\*Vbuf\*O"
Specifies the buffer for the host alias.
.LI "\*Vlen\*O"
Specifies the length of \*Vbuf\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "hostalias function"
The \*Lhostalias(\|)\*O function searches for the alias associated
with the \*Vname\*O.  The \*LHOSTALIASES\*O environment variable
defines the name of a file in which aliases are kept, in the form:
.oS
host	alias
.oE
The \*Lhostalias_r(\|)\*O function is
the reentrant version of the \*Lhostalias(\|)\*O function.  The
difference is that the found name(s) are put in the buffer
pointed at by \*Vbuf\*O.  This buffer should be at least
\*LMAXDNAME\*O characters.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lhostalias(\|)\*O function returns
the host alias.  Otherwise, a null pointer is returned.
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lhostalias_r(\|)\*O function returns
a value of 0 (zero).  Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned, and
\*Lerrno\*O may be set.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the following condition occurs, the \*Lhostalias_r(\|)\*O function
sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value.
.VL
.LI "[ESRCH]"
Host alias could not be found.
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vbuf\*O parameter is invalid or too small.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lres_mkquery\*O(3), \*Lgetenv\*O(3).
.iX "hostalias function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
