.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: iconv.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/21 19:21:49 $
.\"
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH iconv 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Liconv\*O \- Converts a string of characters from one character code set to another character code set.
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
The \*Liconv\*O Library (\*Llibiconv.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <iconv.h>
.sp 0.4v
size_t iconv(
.nL
	iconv_t \*Vcd\*L,
.nL
	char **\*Vinbuf\*L,
.nL
	size_t *\*Vinbytesleft\*L,
.nL
	char **\*Voutbuf\*L,
.nL
	size_t *\*Voutbytesleft\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 1i
.LI "\*Vcd\*O"
Specifies the conversion descriptor that points to
the correct code set converter.
.LI "\*Vinbuf\*O"
Points to a variable that points to the beginning of a buffer
that contains the characters to be converted.
.LI "\*Vinbytesleft\*O"
Points to an integer that contains the number
of bytes in \*Vinbuf\*O still to be converted.
.LI "\*Voutbuf\*O"
Points to a variable that points to the buffer that contains the
characters that have been converted.
.LI "\*Voutbytesleft\*O"
Points to an integer that contains the
number of free bytes in \*Voutbuf\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "iconv function"
.iX "code set converting" "character string"
The \*Liconv(\|)\*O function converts a string of characters
in \*Vinbuf\*O into a different code set and returns the the results
in \*Voutbuf\*O. The required conversion method is identified by \*Vcd\*O, which
must be a valid conversion descriptor returned by a previous
successful call to the \*Liconv_open(\|)\*O function.
.PP
On calling, the
\*Vinbytesleft\*O parameter indicates the number of bytes in \*Vinbuf\*O
to be converted and \*Voutbytesleft\*O indicates the number of
available bytes in \*Voutbuf\*O. These values are updated upon return
so they indicate the new state of their associated buffers.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful conversion of all the characters in the \*Vinbuf\*O
buffer and placing the converted characters in the \*Voutbuf\*O
buffer, the \*Liconv(\|)\*O function returns a value of 0,
updates \*Vinbytesleft\*O and \*Voutbytesleft \*Oparameters, and
increments the \*Vinbuf\*O and \*Voutbuf \*Opointers. If it cannot
convert all of the characters in the \*Vinbuf\*O buffer, the
\*Liconv(\|)\*O function updates the \*Vinbytesleft\*O and
\*Voutbytesleft \*Oparameters, returns the value of \*Vinbytesleft\*O
(the number of bytes in \*Vinbuf\*O that need to be converted), and
sets \*Lerrno\*O to indicate the error condition.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occur, the \*Liconv(\|)\*O function
sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "[E2BIG]"
The \*Voutbuf\*O buffer
is too small to contain all the converted characters. The
character that causes the overflow is not converted and \*Vinbytesleft\*O
indicates the bytes left to be converted, including the character that caused
the overflow. The \*Vinbuf\*O parameter points to the first byte of the
characters left to convert.
.LI "[EBADF]"
The \*Vcd\*O parameter does not specify a valid converter descriptor.
.LI "[EILSEQ]"
An input character does not belong to the input code set. No conversion is
attempted on the invalid character and \*Vinbytesleft\*O indicates the bytes
left to be converted, including the first byte of the invalid character. The
\*Vinbuf\*O parameter points to the first byte of the invalid character
sequence.
.IP
The values of \*Voutbuf\*O and \*Voutbytesleft\*O are updated
according to the number of characters that were previously converted.
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The last character in the \*Vinbuf\*O parameter was not complete.
The \*Vinbytesleft\*O parameter indicates
the number of bytes undefined in the character being converted.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Liconv_close\*O(3), \*Liconv_open\*O(3).
.PP
Commands: \*Liconv\*O(1), \*Lgenxlt\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
