.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: iconv_close.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/21 19:22:46 $
.\"
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH iconv_close 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Liconv_close\*O \- Closes a specified code set converter
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
The \*Liconv\*O Library (\*Llibiconv.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <iconv.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint iconv_close(
.nL
	\*Liconv_t\ \*Vcd\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 1i
.LI "\*Vcd\*O"
Specifies the conversion descriptor to be closed.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "iconv_close function"
The \*Liconv_close \*Ofunction closes a converter previously opened
with \*Liconv_open(\|)\*O
and deallocates any resources used by the specified converter.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Liconv_close(\|)\*O function
returns a value of zero. Otherwise a value of -1 is returned, and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the following condition occurs, the \*Liconv_close(\|)\*O function
sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value.
.VL 1i
.LI "[EBADF]"
The conversion descriptor is invalid.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Liconv\*O(3), \*Liconv_open\*O(3).
.PP
Commands: \*Lgenxlt\*O(1), \*Liconv\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
