.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: iconv_open.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/21 19:23:43 $
.\"
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH iconv_open 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Liconv_open\*O \- Opens a character code-set converter
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
The \*Liconv\*O library (\*Llibiconv.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <iconv.h>
.sp 0.4v
iconv_t iconv_open(
.nL
	const char *\*Vtocode\*L,
.nL
	const char *\*Vfromcode\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 1i
.LI "\*Vtocode\*O"
Specifies the destination code set.
.LI "\*Vfromcode\*O"
Specifies the originating code set.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "iconv_open function"
.iX "opening" "character code set converter"
The \*Liconv_open(\|)\*O function initializes code-set converters. These code
set converters are used by the \*Liconv\*O function to
convert characters from one code set to another. The \*Liconv_open(\|)\*O
function finds the converter that performs the character code-set conversion
specified by the \*Vfromcode \*Oand \*Vtocode\*O parameters, initializes that
converter, then returns a conversion descriptor of type \*Liconv_t\*O that
identifies the code-set converter.
.PP
The \*Liconv_open(\|)\*O function first searches for a code set
converter. If it does not find a converter for the specified code
sets, it searches for a conversion table. The converter and
conversion table filenames are formed by concatenating the
\*Vtocode\*O parameter code-set name
onto the \*Vfromcode\*O parameter code-set name, with
an underscore between the two, for example:
.PP
.oS
\*Vfromcode\*O      \*Vtocode\*O      Converter or Conversion table file
\*Lct\*O            \*LISO8859-1\*O   \*Lct_ISO8859-1\*O
.oE
.PP
The \*Liconv_open(\|)\*O function searches for the converter in an
\*Liconv\*O subdirectory in a directory specified in the \*LLOCPATH\*O
environment variable. If it cannot find a converter, it uses a
table-driven converter and
it searches for a
conversion table in an \*LiconvTable\*O subdirectory in a directory
specified in the
\*LLOCPATH\*O environment variable. If \*LLOCPATH\*O is not defined,
\*Liconv_open(\|)\*O uses the default value:
\*L/usr/lib/nls/loc\*O.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
A conversion descriptor is returned if successful. Otherwise -1 cast
to \*Liconv_t\*O is
returned, and the \*Lerrno\*O global variable is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occur, the \*Liconv_open(\|)\*O
function sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value.
.VL
.LI "[EMFILE]"
Specifies that the number of file descriptors specified by the \*LOPEN_MAX\*O
configuration variable is currently open in the calling process.
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]"
A path used to find the code-set converter or the converter table is
longer than \*LPATH_MAX\*O.
.LI "[ENFILE]"
Specifies that too many files are currently open in the system.
.LI "[ENOMEM]"
Specifies that insufficient storage space is available.
.LI "[EINVAL]"
Specifies that the conversion specified by the \*Vfromcode\*O and \*Vtocode\*O
parameters is not supported by the implementation.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lgenxlt\*O(1), \*Liconv\*O(1).
.PP
Functions: \*Liconv\*O(3), \*Liconv_close\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
