.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: idlok.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/15 18:46:13 $
.\"
.TH idlok 3
.SH NAME
\*Lidlok\*O \- Enables the use of insert/delete line
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O

\*Lint idlok(\*Vwin\*L, \*Vbf\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L;
    bool \*Vbf\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "idlok subroutine"
If enabled, that is, \*Lbf\*O is TRUE, \*Lcurses\*O uses the
insert/delete line hardware of terminals if it is available.
If disabled, \*Lcurses\*O will not use this feature.
This option should be enabled only if the
application needs insert/delete line; for example, for a screen
editor.  It is disabled by default as insert/delete line
can be visually annoying when used in some applications.
.PP
If insert/delete line cannot be used, \*Lcurses\*O
will redraw the changed portions of all lines.
.PP
\*LNOTE\*O:
.PP
The terminal hardware insert/delete character feature
is always used if available.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lidlok\*O function returns OK on success and ERR on error.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
