.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: inch.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/15 18:46:22 $
.\"
.TH inch 3
.SH NAME
\*Linch\*O, \*Lmvinch\*O, \*Lmvwinch\*O, \*Lwinch\*O \- Returns a character from the window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O

\*Lchtype inch()\*O

\*Lchtype winch(\*Vwin\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L;\*O

\*Lchtype mvinch(\*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L)
    int \*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L;\*O

\*Lchtype mvwinch(\*Vwin\*L, \*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L;
    int \*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "inch macro"
.iX "mvinch macro"
.iX "mvwinch macro"
.iX "winch macro"
The \*Linch\*O routine returns the character
at the current cursor position in the default window.
If any attributes are set for that character,
their values will be \*Lor\*O-ed into the value returned.
.PP
The routine \*Lmvinch\*O returns the character at the
specified position in the default window.
If any attributes are set for that position,
their values will be \*Lor\*O-ed into the value returned.
.PP
The \*Lwinch\*O routine returns the character at the current
position in the named window.
If any attributes are set for that position,
their values will be \*Lor\*O-ed into the value returned.
.PP
The \*Lmvwinch\*O routine returns the character at the
specified position in the named window.
If any attributes are set for that position,
their values will be \*Lor\*O-ed into the value returned.
.PP
The following information applies to all the routines.
.PP
The predefined constants A_CHARTEXT and A_ATTRIBUTES,
defined in <curses.h>, can be used with the \*L&\*O (logical
and) operator to extract the character or attributes alone.
.PP
The \*Linch\*O, \*Lwinch\*O, \*Lmvinch\*O, and \*Lmvwinch\*O
routines are macros.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Linch\*O, \*Lmvinch\*O,
\*Lmvwinch\*O, and \*Lwinch\*O functions return the character
at the selected position.  Otherwise, the \*Lmvinch\*O
and \*Lmvwinch\*O functions return ERR.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
