.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: inet_addr.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/01 19:59:54 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.\"build rmifdef tbl eqn
.TH inet_addr 3
.SH NAME
\*Linet_addr\*O \- Translates an Internet network address string to an Internet address integer
.SH LIBRARY
\*OStandard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
\*L#include <netinet/in.h>
.PP
\*L#include <arpa/inet.h>
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Changed 'unsigned long' to 'unsigned int' per QAR 7651.
\*Lunsigned int inet_addr\*O (\*L
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.nL
	\*Lchar *\*Vstring\*L) ;
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*Vstring"
\*ODefines an Internet dot-formatted address character string
of the form \*Va.b.c.d\*O, where \*Va, b, c\*O, and \*Vd\*O  may be
expressed as decimal, octal, or hexadecimal integers in the C idiom.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "inet_addr function"
.iX "network address" "converting string form to integer"
.PP
\*OThe \*Linet_addr(\|)\*O function
translates a dot-formatted Internet character address string
to an Internet address integer. The Internet address
integer is returned as a network byte-ordered integer (most significant byte
leftmost, least significant byte rightmost).
.SH NOTES
The dot-formatted network-address a.b.c.d is
returned as the machine integer dcba.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
\*OUpon successful completion,
the \*Linet_addr(\|)\*O function returns an equivalent network
byte-ordered address integer.
Otherwise, it returns the unsigned int form of the constant INADDR_NONE (-1).
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Linet_netof\*O(3),
\*Linet_lnaof\*O(3),
\*Linet_makeaddr\*O(3),
\*Linet_network\*O(3),
\*Linet_ntoa\*O(3)
.iX "inet_addr function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
