.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: inet_netof.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/06 19:48:20 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH inet_netof 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Linet_netof \- \*OTranslates an Internet address integer into its network address component
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <netinet/in.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*L#include <arpa/inet.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lunsigned int inet_netof\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lstruct in_addr \*Vnet_addr\*L) ;
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*Vnet_addr"
\*ODefines an Internet address in network-byte order. May
be expressed as octal (leading 0), hexadecimal (leading 0x or 0X), or
decimal.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "inet_netof function"
.iX "network address" "converting to network address component"
\*OThe \*Linet_netof(\|)\*O function
translates an Internet address into its network address
component. The network address integer is returned in network-byte order
(most significant byte leftmost, least significant byte rightmost).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
\*OUpon successful completion, the \*Linet_netof(\|)\*O function
returns a network byte-ordered integer that specifies the Internet
network address.
\*OWhen the
\*Linet_netof(\|)\*O
function\*O
fails, -1 is returned.
.iX "inet_netof function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
