.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: inet_ntoa.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/07/22 13:41:19 $
.\" 
...\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" 
...\"
...\"
.TH inet_ntoa 3
.iX "inet_ntoa function"
.SH NAME
\*Linet_ntoa\*O - Translates an Internet integer address into a dot-formatted
character string
.iX "network address" "converting integer to dot-formatted string"
.SH LIBRARY
\*OStandard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <netinet/in.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*L#include <arpa/inet.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lchar *inet_ntoa\*O (\*L
.nL
	\*Lstruct in_addr \*Vnet_addr \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
...\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vnet_addr"
\*O Defines an Internet network-byte ordered integer address to be
converted to an equivalent character string.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P 
\*OThe \*Linet_ntoa(\|)\*O function
translates an Internet byte-ordered address integer into a
dot-formatted character string. The dot-formatted string is returned in
network-byte order (most significant byte leftmost, least significant byte
rightmost).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.P 
\*OUpon successful completion, the \*Linet_ntoa(\|)\*O 
function returns a dot-formatted Internet character string address.
When the \*Linet_ntoa(\|)\*O function
fails, -1 is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.P 
Functions:
\*Linet_netof\*O(3),
\*Linet_lnaof\*O(3),
\*Linet_makeaddr\*O(3),
\*Linet_addr\*O(3),
\*Linet_network\*O(3)
.iX "inet_ntoa function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
