.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: inet_makeaddr.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/06 19:59:44 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH inet_makeaddr 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Linet_makeaddr\*O \- Translates an Internet address and host address into an Internet byte-ordered address integer
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <netinet/in.h>\*O
.PP
\*L#include <arpa/inet.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lstruct in_addr inet_makeaddr\*O (\*L
.nL
	\*Lunsigned int \*Vnet_num\*L,
.nL
	unsigned int \*Vloc_addr\*L) ;
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*Vnet_num"
\*ODefines an Internet number in network-byte order. May be
expressed as octal (leading 0), hexadecimal (leading 0x or 0X),
or decimal.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vloc_addr"
\*ODefines a host (local) address integer. May be expressed as octal
(leading 0), hexadecimal (leading 0x or 0X),
or decimal.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "inet_makeaddr function"
.iX "network address" "converting to byte-ordered address integer"
.iX "host address" "converting to byte-ordered address integer"
.iX "network address" "converting multipart"
\*OThe \*Linet_makeaddr(\|)\*O function translates a multipart Internet
address and a local host address into their equivalent Internet
byte-ordered address integer. The Internet network address integer
is returned in network-byte order (most significant byte leftmost, least
significant byte rightmost).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
\*OUpon successful completion, the \*Linet_makeaddr(\|)\*O function
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Moved text to a new line to avoid 'functionreturns' per QAR 6104.
returns a machine integer that specifies the Internet network
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
byte-ordered address.
\*OWhen the
\*Linet_makeaddr(\|)\*O
function\*O
fails, -1 is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Linet_addr\*O(3),
\*Linet_lnaof\*O(3),
\*Linet_netof\*O(3),
\*Linet_network\*O(3),
\*Linet_ntoa\*O(3)
.iX "inet_makeaddr function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
