.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: inet_network.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/06 19:49:10 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH inet_network 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Linet_network\*O \- Translates an Internet dot-formatted address string to a network address integer
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/socket.h>
.sp .4v
\*L#include <netinet/in.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*L#include <arpa/inet.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lunsigned int inet_network\*O (\*L
.sp .4v
	\*Lchar *\*Vstring \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*Vstring"
\*ODefines an Internet dot-formatted address as
the character string \*Va.b.c.d\*O, where \*Va, b, c\*O and \*Vd\*O may be
expressed as decimal, octal, or hexadecimal in the C-language idiom.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "inet_network function"
.iX "network address" "converting dot-formatted string to integer"
\*OThe \*Linet_network(\|)\*O function
translates a dot-formatted Internet network character address
string to a network byte-ordered address integer (most significant byte
leftmost, least significant byte rightmost).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Created new lines to fix problems in this paragraph per QAR 6104.
Upon successful completion, the \*Linet_network(\|)\*O function
returns an Internet byte-ordered address integer.
When the \*Linet_network(\|)\*O function
fails, -1 is returned.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Linet_netof\*O(3),
\*Linet_lnaof\*O(3),
\*Linet_makeaddr\*O(3),
\*Linet_addr\*O(3),
\*Linet_ntoa\*O(3)
.iX "inet_network function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
