.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: inet_lnaof.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/06 19:58:29 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH inet_lnaof 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Linet_lnaof \- \*OTranslates an Internet address integer into its host (local) address component
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <netinet/in.h>
.PP
\*L#include <arpa/inet.h>
.PP
\*Lunsigned int inet_lnaof\*O (\*L
.nL
	\*Lstruct in_addr \*Vnet_addr\*L) ;
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*Vnet_addr"
\*ODefines an Internet address as a network byte-ordered integer.
May be expressed as octal (leading 0), hexadecimal (leading 0x or 0X), or
decimal.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "inet_lnaof function"
.iX "network address" "converting integer form to host (local) address"
\*OThe \*Linet_lnaof(\|)\*O function
translates an Internet network byte-ordered address into its host (local)
address component. The host address integer is returned in network byte-order
(most significant byte leftmost, least significant byte rightmost).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
\*OUpon successful completion, the \*Linet_lnaof(\|)\*O function
returns a network byte-ordered integer that specifies the host (local)
address part of the Internet network address integer.
When the
\*Linet_lnaof(\|)\*O
function\*O fails, -1 is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Linet_addr\*O(3),
\*Linet_netof\*O(3),
\*Linet_makeaddr\*O(3),
\*Linet_network\*O(3),
\*Linet_ntoa\*O(3)
.iX "inet_lnaof function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
