.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: initgroups.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/18 13:16:41 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH initgroups 3
.SH NAME
\*Linitgroups\*O \- Initializes concurrent group set
.SH LIBRARY
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lint initgroups (
.nL
	char *\*Vuser\*L,
.nL
	gid_t \*Vbase_gid \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vuser"
\*OSpecifies the user whose groups are to be used
to initialize the group set.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vbase_gid" 
\*OSpecifies an additional group to include
in the group set.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "initgroups function"
.iX "group set" "initializing concurrent"
.iX "process" "setting concurrent group set for current"
.PP 
The \*Linitgroups(\|)\*O function reads the defined group membership
of the specified \*Vuser\*O and sets the concurrent group set of
the current process to that value. The \*Vbase_gid\*O parameter
is always included in the concurrent group set, and is normally
the principal user's group. If the user is in more than NGROUPS_MAX
groups, only NGROUPS_MAX groups are set, including the \*Vbase_gid
\*Ogroup.
.SH CAUTION
\*OThe \*Linitgroups(\|)\*O function
uses the \*Lgetgrent(\|)\*O functions.
If the program that invokes \*Linitgroups(\|)\*O
uses any of these functions, then calling \*Linitgroups(\|)\*O
overwrites the static group structure.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the \*Linitgroups(\|)\*O function
returns 0 (zero). If the \*Linitgroups(\|)\*O function fails,
1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is
set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the \*Linitgroups(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to the following value:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EPERM]"
\*OThe calling process does not have the appropriate
privilege in its current effective privilege set.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lgetgroups\*O(2),
\*Lsetgroups\*O(2),
\*Lgetgid\*O(2)
.PP 
Commands:
\*Lgroups\*O(1)
.iX "initgroups function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
