.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: initscr.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/15 18:46:33 $
.\"
.TH initscr 3
.SH NAME
\*Linitscr\*O \- Initializes the terminal environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O

\*LWINDOW \(**initscr\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "initscr subroutine"
.iX "initscr subroutine" "refresh macro"
.iX "initscr subroutine" "newterm subroutine"
This routine determines the terminal type, initializes all
\*Lcurses\*O data
structures, and allocates memory space for the windows.
It also arranges that the first call to the \*Lrefresh\*O
routine will clear the screen.
.PP
The first routine called in a program using \*Lcurses\*O
routines should almost always be \*Linitscr\*O.
If errors occur, \*Linitscr\*O will write an appropriate
error message to standard error and exit.
If the program needs an indication of error conditions,
\*Lnewterm\*O should be used instead of \*Linitscr\*O.
.PP
Note that the \*Lcurses\*O program should only call
\*Linitscr\*O
once as it may overflow core memory if it is called repeatedly.
If this does occur, ERR is returned.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Linitscr\*O function returns \*Lstdscr\*O
on success and calls \*Lexit\*O on error.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lnewterm\*O(3), \*Lrefresh\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
