.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: insch.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/15 18:46:50 $
.\"
.TH insch 3
.SH NAME
\*Linsch\*O, \*Lmvinsch\*O, \*Lmvwinsch\*O, \*Lwinsch\*O \- Inserts a character
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O

\*Lint insch(\*Vch\*L)
    chtype \*Vch\*L;\*O

\*Lint winsch(\*Vwin\*L, \*Vch\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L;
    chtype \*Vch\*L;\*O

\*Lint mvinsch(\*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L, \*Vch\*L)
    int \*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L;
    chtype \*Vch\*L;\*O

\*Lint mvwinsch(\*Vwin\*L, \*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L, \*Vch\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L;
    int \*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L;
    chtype \*Vch\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "insch macro"
.iX "mvinsch macro"
.iX "mvwinsch macro"
.iX "winsch macro"
The \*Linsch\*O routine inserts the character \*Lch\*O
at the current cursor position on the default window.
.PP
The \*Lmvinsch\*O routine inserts the character \*Lch\*O
at the specified cursor position on the default window.
.PP
The \*Lwinsch\*O routine inserts the character \*Lch\*O
at the current cursor position on the specified window.
.PP
The \*Lmvwinsch\*O routine inserts the character \*Lch\*O
at the specified cursor position on the specified window.
.PP
All the routines cause the following actions.
All characters from the cursor position
to the right edge are moved one space to the right.
The last character on the line is always lost,
even if it is a blank.
The cursor position does not change after the insert is
completed.
.PP
The \*Linsch\*O, \*Lmvinsch\*O, and \*Lmvwinsch\*O routines
are macros.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Linsch\*O, \*Lmvinsch\*O, \*Lmvwinsch\*O, and \*Lwinsch\*O
functions return OK on success and ERR on error.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
