.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: insertln.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/15 18:47:00 $
.\"
.TH insertln 3
.SH NAME
\*Linsertln\*O, \*Lwinsertln\*O \- Inserts a line
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O

\*Lint insertln(\|)\*O

\*Lint winsertln(\*Vwin\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "insertln macro"
.iX "winsertln subroutine"
The \*Linsertln\*O routine inserts a blank line above the
current line in the default window.
All lines below and including the current line are moved down.
The bottom line is lost and the current line becomes blank.
The (y, x) coordinates are unchanged.
.PP
The \*Lwinsertln\*O routine inserts a blank line above
the current line on the specified window.
All lines below and including the current line are moved down.
The bottom line is lost and the current line becomes blank.
The (y, x) coordinates are unchanged.
.PP
The routine \*Linsertln\*O is a macro.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Linsertln\*O and \*Lwinsertln\*O functions return OK
on success and ERR on error.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
