.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: insque.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 21:25:01 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH insque 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Linsque\*O, \*Lremque\*O \- Inserts or removes an element in a queue
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lstruct qelem [
.nL
    struct  qelem *q_forw;
.nL
    struct  qelem *q_back;
.nL
    char    q_data[ ];
.nL
];\*O
.sp .4v
\*Linsque (
.nL
	struct qelem *\*Velement\*L,
.nL
	struct qelem *\*Vpred \*L);\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lremque (
.nL
	struct qelem *\*Velement \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vpred"
\*OPoints to the element in the queue immediately before
the element to be inserted or deleted.
.LI "\*Velement"
\*OPoints to the element in the queue immediately
after the element to be inserted or deleted.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "insque function"
.iX "remque function"
.iX "queue" "inserting element in"
.iX "queue" "removing element from"
The \*Linsque(\|)\*O and \*Lremque(\|)\*O functions
manipulate queues built from double-linked lists. Each element in
the queue must be in the form of a \*Lqelem\*O structure. The \*Lq_forw\*O
and \*Lq_back\*O elements of that structure must point to
the elements in the queue immediately before and after the element
to be inserted or deleted.
.PP
The \*Linsque(\|)\*O function inserts the element pointed to
by the \*Velement\*O parameter into a queue immediately after the
element pointed to by the \*Vpred\*O parameter.
.PP
The \*Lremque(\|)\*O function removes the element defined by
the \*Velement\*O parameter from a queue.
.iX "insque function"
.iX "remque function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
