.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: inswch.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/16 00:14:12 $
.\"
.TH inswch 3
.SH NAME
\*Linswch\*O, \*Lwinswch\*O, \*Lmvinswch\*O, \*Lmvwinswch\*O \- Insert a wchar_t character before the character under the cursor in a window
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
The \*Lcurses\*O library (\*Llibcurses.so\*O, \*Llibcurses.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint inswch( chtype \*Vwch \*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint winswch(
.br
        WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L,
.br
        chtype \*Vwch \*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint mvinswch(
.br
        int \*Vy\*L,
.br
        int \*Vx\*L,
.br
        chtype \*Vwch \*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint mvwinswch(
.br
        WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L,
.br
        int \*Vy\*L,
.br
        int \*Vx\*L,
.br
        chtype \*Vwch \*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vwch\*O"
Specifies the wide character to be inserted.
.LI "\*Vwin\*O"
Specifies a \*Lcurses\*O window. If not specified, the
window is the default window \*Lstdscr\*O.
.LI "\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O"
Specifies the line (\*Vy\*O) and column (\*Vx\*O)
coordinates of the target position on the window.
If coordinates are not specified, the target
position is the current position of the logical cursor.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "inswch macro"
.iX "mvinswch macro"
.iX "mvwinswch macro"
.iX "winswch subroutine"
The \*Linswch\*O routine inserts the wchar_t character \*Vwch\*O
before the character under the current cursor position on the default window.
.PP
The \*Lwinswch\*O routine inserts the wchar_t character \*Vwch\*O
before the character under the current cursor position on window
\*Vwin\*O.
.PP
The \*Lmvinswch\*O routine inserts the wchar_t character \*Vwch\*O
at cursor position (\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O) on the default window.
.PP
The \*Lmvwinswch\*O routine inserts the wchar_t character \*Vwch\*O
at cursor position (\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O) on the window \*Vwin\*O.
.PP
All the routines cause the following actions:
.ML
.LI
All characters from the cursor position
to the right edge of the window are moved one character position to the right.
.LI
The last character on the line is always lost, even if it is a blank.
.LI
The cursor position does not change after the insert is completed.
.LE
.PP
The \*Linswch\*O, \*Lmvinswch\*O, and \*Lmvwinswch\*O routines are macros.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Linswch\*O, \*Lmvinswch\*O, \*Lmvwinswch\*O, and \*Lwinswch\*O
functions return \*LOK\*O on success and \*LERR\*O on error.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Laddwch\*O(3), \*Lcurses\*O(3), \*Lcurses_intro\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
