.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: intro.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/22 14:46:09 $
.\"
.TH intro 3
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction to library functions
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "intro(3) keyword"
.iX "subroutines"
This section describes functions that may be found
in various libraries.  The library functions are those other than the
functions that directly invoke DEC OSF/1 system primitives,
described in Section 2.
.\" Removed because it is no longer applicable
.\".PP
.\"The Section 3 DEC OSF/1 reference pages are
.\"made up of an OSF-supplied component
.\"and a Digital-supplied component.
.\"The title line of an OSF-supplied
.\"reference page carries an "OSF" label while the Digital-supplied
.\"reference pages are labeled "Digital".
.\".PP
.\"When OSF-supplied code operates differently on Digital platforms or
.\"has Digital extensions, information is added to the OSF reference page
.\"and marked as
.\"\*L[Digital only]\*O.
.\".PP
.\"When needed, technical corrections have been made to the OSF-supplied
.\"reference pages.
.PP
The suffixes used on some reference pages are used only to allow reference
pages with the same base name to exist on DEC OSF/1 systems. When used,
suffixes are made up of one to four letters. See the \*Lman\*O(1)
reference page for more information on suffixes.
.iX "library" "functions"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.iX "libm library" "diagnostics and"
Functions in the math library may return
conventional values when the function is undefined for the
given arguments or when the value is not representable.
In these cases the external variable
\*Verrno\*O
is set to the value EDOM (domain error) or ERANGE (range error).
For further information, see
intro(2).
The values of EDOM and ERANGE are defined in the include file
<math.h>.
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 30
/usr/lib/libc.a
.TP
/usr/lib/libcP.a
.TP
/usr/lib/libm.a  
.TP
/usr/lib/libcV.a
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
cc(1), ld(1), nm(1), intro(2)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
