.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: inwch.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/16 00:19:26 $
.\"
.TH inwch 3
.SH NAME
\*Linwch\*O, \*Lwinwch\*O, \*Lmvinwch\*O, \*Lmvwinwch\*O \- Return a wchar_t character and its attribute from a curses window
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
The \*Lcurses\*O library (\*Llibcurses.so\*O, \*Llibcurses.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lchtype inwch(\|);\*O
.PP
\*Lchtype winwch( WINDOW \(**\*Vwin \*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lchtype mvinwch(
.br
        int \*Vy\*L,
.br
        int \*Vx \*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lchtype mvwinwch(
.br
        WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L,
.br
        int \*Vy\*L,
.br
        int \*Vx \*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vwin\*O"
Specifies a \*Lcurses\*O window. If not specified, the
window is the default window \*Lstdscr\*O.
.LI "\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O"
Specifies the line (\*Vy\*O) and column (\*Vx\*O)
coordinates of the target position on the window.
If coordinates are not specified, the target
position is the current position of the logical cursor.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "inwch macro"
.iX "mvinwch macro"
.iX "mvwinwch macro"
.iX "winwch subroutine"
The \*Linwch\*O routine returns the wchar_t character of type \*Lchtype\*O
at the current cursor position in the default window.
If any attributes are set for that character,
a logical OR operation combines their values into the value returned.
.PP
The \*Lmvinwch\*O routine returns the wchar_t character of type \*Lchtype\*O at
position (\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O) in the default window.
If any attributes are set for that character,
a logical OR operation combines their values into the value returned.
.PP
The \*Lwinwch\*O routine returns the wchar_t character of type \*Lchtype\*O
at the current position in window \*Vwin\*O.
If any attributes are set for that character,
a logical OR operation combines their values into the value returned.
.PP
The \*Lmvwinwch\*O routine returns the wchar_t character of type
\*Lchtype\*O at
position (\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O) in window \*Vwin\*O.
If any attributes are set for that character,
a logical OR operation combines their values into the value returned.
.PP
For all the preceding routines, you can use the constants \*LA_CHARTEXT\*O and
\*LA_ATTRIBUTES\*O with the \*L&\*O (logical
and) operator to extract the character or attributes alone.
The \*LA_CHARTEXT\*O and \*LA_ATTRIBUTES\*O constants are defined
in \*Lcurses.h\*O.
.PP
The \*Linwch\*O, \*Lmvinwch\*O, and \*Lmvwinwch\*O
routines are macros.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Linwch\*O, \*Lmvinwch\*O,
\*Lmvwinwch\*O, and \*Lwinwch\*O routines return the character
at the selected position.  Otherwise, the \*Lmvinwch\*O
and \*Lmvwinwch\*O functions return \*LERR\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lcurses\*O(3), \*Lcurses_intro\*O(3), \*Linwstr\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
