.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: inwchstr.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/16 00:22:00 $
.\"
.TH inwchstr 3
.SH NAME
\*Linwchstr\*O, \*Linwchnstr\*O, \*Lwinwchstr\*O, \*Lwinwchnstr\*O, \*Lmvinwchstr\*O, \*Lmvinwchnstr\*O, \*Lmvwinwchstr\*O, \*Lmvwinwchnstr\*O \- Get a string of wchar_t characters (with attributes) from a curses window
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
The \*Lcurses\*O library (\*Llibcurses.so\*O, \*Llibcurses.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint inwchstr( chtype \(**\*Vwchstr \*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint inwchnstr(
.br
        chtype \(**\*Vwchstr\*L,
.br
        int \*Vn \*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint winwchstr(
.br
        WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L,
.br
        chtype \(**\*Vwchstr \*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint winwchnstr(
.br
        WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L,
.br
        chtype \(**\*Vwchstr\*L,
.br
        int \*Vn \*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint mvinwchstr(
.br
        int \*Vy\*L,
.br
        int \*Vx\*L,
.br
        chtype \(**\*Vwchstr \*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint mvinwchnstr(
.br
        int \*Vy\*L,
.br
        int \*Vx\*L,
.br
        chtype \(**\*Vwchstr\*L,
.br
        int \*Vn \*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint mvwinwchstr(
.br
        WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L,
.br
        int \*Vy\*L,
.br
        int \*Vx\*L,
.br
        chtype \(**\*Vwchstr \*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint mvwinwchnstr(
.br
        WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L,
.br
        int \*Vy\*L,
.br
        int \*Vx\*L,
.br
        chtype \(**\*Vwchstr\*L,
.br
        int \*Vn \*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vwchstr\*O"
Specifies a pointer to the wide-character string
to be returned from the window.
.LI "\*Vwin\*O"
Specifies a \*Lcurses\*O window. If not specified, the
window is the default window \*Lstdscr\*O.
.LI "\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O"
Specifies the line (\*Vy\*O) and column (\*Vx\*O)
coordinates of the target position on the window.
If coordinates are not specified, the target
position is the current position of the logical cursor.
.LI "\*Vn\*O"
Specifies the maximum number of wide characters to be returned
from the string.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "inwchstr macro"
.iX "inwchnstr macro"
.iX "winwchstr macro"
.iX "winwchnstr subroutine"
.iX "mvinwchstr macro"
.iX "mvinwchnstr macro"
.iX "mvwinwchstr macro"
.iX "mvwinwchnstr macro"
The \*Linwchstr\*O routine gets a string of type \*Lchtype\*O
on the default window at the current coordinates.
.PP
The \*Linwchnstr\*O routine gets at most \*Vn\*O wchar_t characters in the
string of type \*Lchtype\*O on the default window at the current coordinates.
.PP
The \*Lwinwchstr\*O routine gets a string of type \*Lchtype\*O
on window \*Vwin\*O at the current coordinates.
.PP
The \*Lwinwchnstr\*O routine gets at most \*Vn\*O wchar_t characters in the
string of type \*Lchtype\*O on window \*Vwin\*O at the current coordinates.
.PP
The \*Lmvinwchstr\*O routine
gets a string of type \*Lchtype\*O
on the default window at coordinates (\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O).
.PP
The \*Lmvinwchnstr\*O routine gets at most \*Vn\*O wchar_t characters in the
string of type \*Lchtype\*O on the default window at coordinates
(\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O).
.PP
The \*Lmvwinwchstr\*O routine gets a string of type \*Lchtype\*O
on window \*Vwin\*O at coordinates (\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O).
.PP
The \*Lmvwinwchnstr\*O routine gets at most \*Vn\*O wchar_t characters in the
string of type \*Lchtype\*O on window \*Vwin\*O at
coordinates (\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O).
.PP
For all routines, the returned string of type \*Lchtype\*O
starts from the appropriate cursor position
and ends at the right margin of the line in the window.
.PP
For those four routines with \*Vn\*O as the last argument, at most \*Vn\*O
wchar_t characters are returned in the pointer \*Vwchstr\*O.
If \*Vn\*O is equal to \-1, the whole string is returned.
You can extract the wchar_t character or its attribute by using
logical AND with each element in the string.
.PP
The
\*Linwchstr\*O, \*Linwchnstr\*O, \*Lwinwchstr\*O,
\*Lmvinwchstr\*O, \*Lmvinwchnstr\*O, \*Lmvwinwchstr\*O, and \*Lmvwinwchnstr\*O
routines are macros.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Linwchstr\*O, \*Linwchnstr\*O, \*Lwinwchstr\*O, \*Lwinwchnstr\*O,
\*Lmvinwchstr\*O, \*Lmvinwchnstr\*O, \*Lmvwinwchstr\*O and \*Lmvwinwchnstr\*O
functions return \*LOK\*O on success and \*LERR\*O on error.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lcurses\*O(3), \*Lcurses_intro\*O(3), \*Linwch\*O(3),
\*Linwstr\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
