.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH isastream 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lisastream\*O - Determines if a file descriptor refers to a STREAMS file
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library \*L(libc.a)\*O
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lint isastream(
.nL
	int \*Vfildes);\*L
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vfildes\*O"
Specifies a file descriptor of an open STREAMS file.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "isastream function"
.iX "test a file descriptor"
The \*Lisastream\*O(\|) function tests whether a file descriptor it
encounters is actually a STREAMS file.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lisastream\*O(\|) function returns a
value of 1 when the file descriptor of the open file specified by
\*Vfildes\*O
is a STREAMS file, and it returns a value of 0 (zero)
if it is not a STREAMS file.  Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned, and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occur, the \*Lisastream\*O(\|) function
sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.VL
.LI "[EBADF]"
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a valid open file.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lfattach(3)\*O, \*Lfdetach(3)\*O.
.PP
Interfaces: \*Lstreamio(7)\*O.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
