.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: iswalnum.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/21 19:24:42 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH iswalnum 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Liswalnum\*O, \*Liswalpha\*O, \*Liswcntrl\*O, \*Liswdigit\*O, \*Liswgraph\*O, \*Liswlower\*O, \*Liswprint\*O, \*Liswpunct\*O, \*Liswspace\*O, \*Liswupper\*O, \*Liswxdigit\*O \- Classify a wide character
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
The Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <ctype.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint iswalnum(
.nL
	wint_t \*Vwc\*L);
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint iswalpha(
.nL
	wint_t \*Vwc\*L);
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint iswcntrl(
.nL
	wint_t \*Vwc\*L);
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint iswdigit(
.nL
	wint_t \*Vwc\*L);
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint iswgraph(
.nL
	wint_t \*Vwc\*L);
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint iswlower(
.nL
	wint_t \*Vwc\*L);
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint iswprint(
.nL
	wint_t \*Vwc\*L);
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint iswpunct(
.nL
	wint_t\ \*Vwc\*L);
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint iswspace(
.nL
	wint_t \*Vwc\*L);
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint iswupper(
.nL
	wint_t \*Vwc\*L);
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint iswxdigit(
.nL
	wint_t \*Vwc\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 0.5i
.LI "\*Vwc\*O"
Specifies a wide character for testing.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "iswalnum function"
.iX "alphanumeric class type test"
.iX "iswalpha function"
.iX "alpha class type test"
.iX "iswcntrl function"
.iX "control character class type test"
.iX "iswdigit function"
.iX "digit class type test"
.iX "iswgraph function"
.iX "graph class type test"
.iX "iswlower function"
.iX "lowercase class type test"
.iX "iswprint function"
.iX "print class type test"
.iX "iswpunct function"
.iX "punctuation class type test"
.iX "iswspace function"
.iX "space class type test"
.iX "iswupper function"
.iX "uppercase class type test"
.iX "iswxdigit function"
.iX "xdigit class type test"
These functions test a wide character \*Vwc\*O
for membership in
a character class in the current locale.
Each function tests to see if a wide character is part of a different
character class.
.PP
If the wide character is part of the character class,
the function returns a nonzero value for true; otherwise, it returns a
value of 0 (zero) for false.
.PP
Each function is named by adding the prefix \*Lisw\*O to the
name of the character class that the function tests. For example,
the \*Liswalpha(\|)\*O function tests whether the wide character
specified by the \*Vwc\*O parameter belongs to the \*Lalpha\*O class.
.PP
The following lists the function names and describes the conditions under
which they return a true value.
.VL 10
.LI "\*Liswalnum(\|)\*O"
When \*Vwc\*O is a character of class \*Lalpha\*O or class \*Ldigit\*O in the
program's current locale.
.LI "\*Liswalpha(\|)\*O"
When \*Vwc\*O is a character of class \*Lalpha\*O in the program's
current locale. Characters in classes \*Llower\*O and \*Lupper\*O
automatically belong to class \*Lalpha\*O.
.LI "\*Liswcntrl(\|)\*O"
When \*Vwc\*O is a character of class \*Lcntrl\*O in the program's
current locale.
.LI "\*Liswdigit(\|)\*O"
When \*Vwc\*O is a character of class \*Ldigit\*O in the program's
current locale. The following characters are included in this class:
.IP
.oS
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
.oE
.LI "\*Liswgraph(\|)\*O"
When \*Vwc\*O is a character of class \*Lgraph\*O in the program's
current locale. Characters in classes \*Lalpha\*O, \*Ldigit\*O, and
\*Lpunct\*O are automatically in class \*Lgraph\*O.
Unlike \*Liswprint(\|)\*O, \*Liswgraph(\|)\*O returns FALSE
for the space character.
.LI "\*Liswlower(\|)\*O"
When \*Vwc\*O is a character of class \*Llower\*O in the program's
current locale. At a minimum, the 26 lowercase US-ASCII characters are
included in this class. These are:
.IP
.oS
a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z
.oE
.LI "\*Liswprint(\|)\*O"
When \*Vwc\*O is a character of class \*Lprint\*O in the program's
current locale. All characters in the class \*Lgraph\*O and the
space character are automatically included in class \*Lprint\*O.
.LI "\*Liswpunct(\|)\*O"
When \*Vwc\*O is a character of class \*Lpunct\*O in the program's
current locale.
.LI "\*Liswspace(\|)\*O"
When \*Vwc\*O is a character of class \*Lspace\*O in the program's
current locale. At a minimum, the space, form-feed, newline,
carriage-return, tab, and vertical-tab characters are included in this class.
.LI "\*Liswupper(\|)\*O"
When \*Vwc\*O is a character of class \*Lupper\*O in the program's
current locale. At a minimum, the 26 uppercase US-ASCII characters are
included in this class. These are:
.IP
.oS
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
.oE
.LI "\*Liswxdigit(\|)\*O"
When \*Vwc\*O is a character of class \*Lxdigit\*O in the program's
current locale. The following characters are included in this class:
.IP
.oS
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 A B C D E F a b c d e f
.oE
.LE
.PP
These functions determine the class of a wide character
based on the \*LLC_CTYPE\*O locale category.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If the wide character tested is part of the particular character
class, these functions return a nonzero value; otherwise
they return a value of 0 (zero).
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Files:
\*Llocale\*O(4).
.PP
Functions:
\*Lctype\*O(3),
\*Liswctype\*O(3),
\*Lwctype\*O(3),
\*Lsetlocale\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
