.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: iswctype.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 16:00:49 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH iswctype 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Liswctype\*O \- Determines the properties of a wide character
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <wchar.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint iswctype(
.nL
	wint_t \*Vwc\*L,
.nL
	wctype_t \*Vwc_prop\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 1i
.LI "\*Vwc\*O"
Specifies the wide character to be tested.
.LI "\*Vwc_prop\*O"
Specifies the property to be tested for.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "iswctype function"
The \*Liswctype(\|)\*O function tests the wide character specified
by the \*Vwc\*O parameter to determine if it has the property specified
by the \*Vwc_prop\*O parameter.
.\" .zA "defect, 7371, R1.1.2, Added two sentences"
The \*Lwctype(\|)\*O function associates a character property with a
\*Lwctype_t\*O handle.  You should get the value of the \*Vwc_proc\*O
parameter from a call to \*Lwctype(\|)\*O before using it in a call
to \*Liswctype(\|)\*O.
.\" .zZ "defect, 7371, R1.1.2, Added two sentences"
The \*Liswctype(\|)\*O function
is defined for the wide-character null and for values
in the character range of the current code set defined in the current locale.
.PP
Using an \*Lisw\*Vclass\*O function, such as \*Liswalnum(\|)\*O,
is equivalent to using the \*Liswctype(\|)\*O and \*Lwctype(\|)\*O
functions to test for a basic property, such as \*Lalnum\*O.
However, \*Liswctype(\|)\*O and \*Lwctype(\|)\*O
can test wide characters against any class defined in a locale;
the functions are not limited to testing for basic properties.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If the \*Vwc\*O parameter has the property specified by the \*Vwc_prop\*O
parameter, the \*Liswctype(\|)\*O function returns a nonzero value. If the
value specified by the \*Vwc\*O parameter does not have the property specified by the \*Vwc_prop\*O parameter, the \*Liswctype(\|)\*O function returns a value
of 0 (zero). If the value specified by the \*Vwc\*O parameter is not in the
function's domain, the result is undefined. If the value specified by the
\*Vwc_prop\*O parameter is not valid, the result is undefined.
The value of the \*Vwctype\*O parameter can be invalid because it
has not obtained by a call to the
.\" .zA "defect, 7371, R1.1.2, replaced get_wctype with wctype"
\*Lwctype(\|)\*O
.\" .zA "defect, 7371, R1.1.2, replaced get_wctype with wctype"
function, or it can be
invalidated by an intervening call to the \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O function
that has affected the \*LLC_CTYPE\*O environment variable.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lctype\*O(3),
\*Lwctype\*O(3),
\*Lsetlocale\*O(3),
.\" .zA "defect, 7371, R1.1.2, replaced wctype with iswalnum"
\*Liswalnum\*O(3).
.\" .zZ "defect, 7371, R1.1.2, replaced wctype with iswalnum"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
