.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: itrunc.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/09 16:35:40 $
.\"
.TH itrunc 3
.PP
.\"
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Litrunc\*O, \*Luitrunc\*O \- Truncate a floating-point number
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lint itrunc(
.nL
     double \*Vx\*L);\*O
.nL
\*Lunsigned int uitrunc(
.nL
     double \*Vx\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "itrunc" "truncate floating-pointer number"
.iX "uitrunc" "truncate floating-point number"
The \*Litrunc\*O function returns the signed integer nearest to the
double-precision floating value \*Vx\*O in the direction of 0.0.  This
effectively truncates \*Vx\*O by discarding its fraction component.
The \*L uitrunc\*O function also truncates the double \*Vx\*O, but
returns an unsigned integer value.
.PP
If \*Vx\*O is a NaN or a negative value that exceeds the size of a signed integer,
itrunc returns INT_MIN.   If \*Vx\*O is a positive value that exceeds the
size of a signed integer, itrunc returns INT_MAX.
.PP
If \*Vx\*O is a NaN or a negative value that exceeds the size of an unsigned integer,
uitrunc returns a zero.   If \*Vx\*O is a positive value that exceeds the
size of an  unsigned integer, itrunc returns UINT_MAX.

.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Files: \*Llimits.h\*O, \*Lmath.h\*O, \*Lfloat.h\*O, \*Lfp.h\*O, \*Lmachine/fpu.h\*O.
.PP
\*EIEEE Standard for Binary Floating-Point Arithmetic\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
