.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: keypad.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/15 23:24:10 $
.\"
.TH keypad 3
.SH NAME
\*Lkeypad\*O \- Enables the keypad
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O

\*Lint keypad(\*Vwin\*L, \*Vbf\*L)
    WINDOW *\*Vwin\*L;
    bool \*Vbf\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "keypad subroutine"
This option enables the keypad of the user's terminal.
If the keypad is enabled, pressing a function key
(such as an arrow key) will return a single value
representing the function key.
For example, pressing the left arrow key results in the
value KEY_LEFT being returned.
.PP
The routine \*Lgetch\*O is used to return the character.
If the keypad is disabled, \*Lcurses\*O
does not treat function keys as special keys and the program
interprets the escape sequences itself.
Keypad layout is terminal dependent;
some terminals do not even have a keypad.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lkeypad\*O function returns OK on success and ERR on error.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lgetch\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
