.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ldclose.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 10:55:36 $
.\"
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright Unpublished, MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.  All Rights |
.\" | Reserved.  This software contains proprietary and confidential |
.\" | information of MIPS and its suppliers.  Use, disclosure or     |
.\" | reproduction is prohibited without the prior express written   |
.\" | consent of MIPS.                                               |
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"  ldclose.3 3.1
.TH ldclose 3
.SH NAME
ldclose, ldaclose \- close a common object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ft B
.nf
.ta \w'\s-1LDFILE\s+1\ \ \ 'u
.B #include <stdio.h>
.ie '\*p'' \{
.B #include <filehdr.h>
.B #include <syms.h>
.B #include <ldfcn.h>
\}
.el \{
.ft B
#include "INCDIR\/filehdr.h"
#include "INCDIR\/syms.h"
#include "INCDIR\/ldfcn.h"
\}
.PP
.BR "int ldclose (" ldptr )
.BR "\s-1LDFILE\s+1 \(**" ldptr ;
.PP
.BR "int ldaclose (" ldptr )
.BR "\s-1LDFILE\s+1 \(**" ldptr ;
.fi
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\*Lldopen\*O(3) and
.B ldclose
provide uniform access to simple object files and
object files that are members of archive files.
An archive
of common object files can be processed as if it is a series of
simple common object files.
.PP
If
.BI \s-1TYPE\s+1( ldptr )
does not represent an archive file,
.B ldclose
closes the file and frees the memory allocated to the
.BR \s-1LDFILE\s+1 " structure"
associated with
.IR ldptr .
If
.BI \s-1TYPE\s+1( ldptr )
is the magic number for an archive file and
if archive has more files,
.B ldclose
reinitializes
.BI \s-1OFFSET\s+1( ldptr )
to the file address of the next archive member
and returns
.BR \s-1FAILURE\s+1 .
The
.SM
.B LDFILE
structure is prepared for a later \*Lldopen\*O(3).
In all other cases,
.B ldclose
returns
.BR \s-1SUCCESS\s+1 .
.PP
.B ldaclose
closes the file and frees the memory allocated to the
.BR \s-1LDFILE\s+1 " structure"
associated with
\*Vldptr\*O
regardless of the value of
.BI \s-1TYPE\s+1 (ldptr).
.B ldaclose
.RB "always returns " \s-1SUCCESS\s+1 .
The function is often used with
.IR ldaopen .
.PP
The program must be loaded with the object file access routine library
.ie '\*p'' \{
.BR libmld.a .
\}
.el \{
LIBDIR\/libmld.a .
\}
.PP
.\" .if !'\*p'' \{
.\" \*Lintro\*O(4) describes
.\" .IR INCDIR " and " LIBDIR.
.\" \}
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.if !'\*p'' \{
\*Lfclose\*O(3), \*Lldopen\*O(3), \*Lldfcn\*O(4)
\}
.if '\*p'' \{
\*Lfclose\*O(3), \*Lldopen\*O(3), \*Lldfcn\*O(4).
\}
.EQ
delim off
.EN
