.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ldgetaux.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/02/03 21:11:47 $
.\"
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright Unpublished, MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.  All Rights |
.\" | Reserved.  This software contains proprietary and confidential |
.\" | information of MIPS and its suppliers.  Use, disclosure or     |
.\" | reproduction is prohibited without the prior express written   |
.\" | consent of MIPS.                                               |
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"  ldgetaux.3 3.1
.TH ldgetaux 3
.SH NAME
\*Lldgetaux\*O \- Retrieves an auxiliary entry, given an index
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "ldgetaux routine"
.iX "auxiliary entry" "ldgetaux routine"
.sS
\*L#include <stdio.h>\*O
.nL
\*L#include <filehdr.h>\*O
.nL
\*L#include <sym.h>\*O
.nL
\*L#include <ldfcn.h>\*O
.sp
\*LpAUXU ldgetaux (\*Vldptr\*L, \*Viaux\*L )\*O
.nL
\*LLDFILE \** \*Vldptr\*L ;\*O
.nL
\*Llong \** \*Viaux\*L ;\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lldgetaux\*O routine
returns a pointer to an auxiliary table entry associated with \*Liaux\*O.
The AUXU is contained in a static buffer.
Because the buffer can be overwritten
by later calls to \*Lldgetaux\*O, it must be copied by the
caller if the aux is to be saved or changed.
.PP
Note that auxiliary entries are not swapped as this routine cannot detect
what manifestation of the \s-1AUXU\s0 union is retrieved.
If LDAUXSWAP(ldptr, ldf) is non-zero,
a further call to \*Vswap_aux\*O
is required.  Before calling the \*Lswap_aux\*O routine,
the caller should copy the aux.
.PP
If the auxiliary cannot be retrieved, \*Lldgetaux\*O returns NULL
(defined in \*L<stdio.h>\*O) for an object file.
This occurs when:
.ML
.LI
The auxiliary table cannot be found
.LI
The iaux offset into the auxiliary table is beyond the
end of the table
.LE
.PP
Typically, \*Lldgetaux\*O is called immediately after
a successful call to \*Lldtbread\*O to retrieve the
data type information associated with the symbol table entry filled by
\*Lldtbread\*O. The index field of the symbol SYMR is
the \*Liaux\*O when
data type information is required. If the data type information for a symbol
is not present, the index field is \*LindexNil\*O and \*Lldgetaux\*O
should not be called.
.PP
The program must be loaded with the object file access
routine library \*Llibmld.a\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lldclose\*O(3), \*Lldopen\*O(3), \*Lldtbseek\*O(3), \*Lldtbread\*O(3),
\*Lldfcn\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
