.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ldgetname.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 10:56:07 $
.\"
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright Unpublished, MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.  All Rights |
.\" | Reserved.  This software contains proprietary and confidential |
.\" | information of MIPS and its suppliers.  Use, disclosure or     |
.\" | reproduction is prohibited without the prior express written   |
.\" | consent of MIPS.                                               |
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"  ldgetname.3 3.1
.TH ldgetname 3
.SH NAME
ldgetname \- retrieve symbol name for object file symbol table entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
.B "#include <stdio.h>"
.B "#include <filehdr.h>"
.B "#include <sym.h>"
.B "#include <ldfcn.h>"
.fi
.sp
.nf
\*L char *ldgetname (ldptr, symbol)
LDFILE * ldptr ;
pSYMR * symbol ;\*O
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\*VLdgetname\*O
returns a pointer to the name associated with \f2symbol\fP
as a string.  The string is contained in a static buffer.
Because the buffer can be overwritten
by later calls to \*Lldgetname\*O, the caller must copy the
buffer if the name is to be saved.
.PP
If the name cannot be retrieved,
\*Lldgetname\*O returns \f3NULL\fP
(defined in \f3<stdio.h>\fP) for an object file.
This occurs when:
.sp
.IP \s8\(bu\s10 8
the string table cannot be found
.IP \s8\(bu\s10 8
the name's offset into the string table is beyond the
end of the string table
.sp
.br
.PP
Typically, \*Lldgetname\*O is called immediately after
a successful call to \*Lldtbread\*O. \*LLdgetname\*O retrieves the
name associated with the symbol table entry filled by
\*Lldtbread\*O.
.PP
The program must be loaded with the object file access
routine library \f3libmld.a\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lldclose\*O(3), \*Lldopen\*O(3), \*Lldtbseek\*O(3), \*Lldtbread\*O(3),
\*Lldfcn\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
