.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ldlread.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 10:56:30 $
.\"
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright Unpublished, MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.  All Rights |
.\" | Reserved.  This software contains proprietary and confidential |
.\" | information of MIPS and its suppliers.  Use, disclosure or     |
.\" | reproduction is prohibited without the prior express written   |
.\" | consent of MIPS.                                               |
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"  ldlread.3 3.1
.TH ldlread 3
.SH NAME
ldlread, ldlinit, ldlitem \- manipulate line number entries of a common object file function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.ie '\*p'' \{
.B #include <filehdr.h>
.B #include <syms.h>
.B #include <ldfcn.h>
\}
.el \{
.B #include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/filehdr.h"
.B #include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/syms.h"
.B #include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/ldfcn.h"
\}
.ft R
.PP
.BR "int ldlread (" "ldptr, fcnindx, linenum, linent" )
.BR "\s-1LDFILE\s+1 \(**" ldptr ;
.BR long " fcnindx" ;
.BR "unsigned short" " linenum" ;
.BR "\s-1LINER\s+1" " linent" ;
.PP
.BR "int ldlinit (" "ldptr, fcnindx" )
.BR "\s-1LDFILE\s+1 \(**" ldptr ;
.BR long " fcnindx" ;
.PP
.BR "int ldlitem (" "ldptr, linenum, linent" )
.BR "\s-1LDFILE\s+1 \(**" ldptr ;
.BR "unsigned short" " linenum" ;
.BR "\s-LINER\s+1" " linent" ;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\*VLdlread\*O
searches the line number entries of the common object file currently
associated with
.IR ldptr .
\*VLdlread\*O
begins its search with the line number entry for the beginning of a function
and confines its search to the line numbers associated with a single function.
The function is identified by
.IR fcnindx ,
which is the index of its local symbols entry in the object file symbol table.
.IR Ldlread
reads the entry with the smallest line number equal to or greater
than
\*Vlinenum\*O
into
.IR linent .
.PP
.IR Ldlinit
and
.IR ldlitem
together do exactly the same function as
\*Vldlread.\*O
After an initial call to
\*Vldlread\*O
or
\*Vldlinit,\*O
\*Vldlitem\*O
can be used to retrieve a series of line number entries associated with a
single function.
\*VLdlinit\*O
simply finds the line number entries for the function identified by
\*Vfcnindx.\*O
\*VLdlitem\*O
finds and reads the entry with the smallest line number equal to or greater
than
\*Vlinenum\*O
into
.IR linent .
.PP
.IR Ldlread ,
.IR ldlinit ,
and
\*Vldlitem\*O
each return either
.B \s-1SUCCESS\s+1
or
.BR \s-1FAILURE\s+1 .
If no line number entries exist in the object file, if \*Vfcnindx\*O
does not index a function entry in the symbol table, or if it finds
no line number equal to or greater than \*Vlinenum\*O,
\*Vldlread\*O
fails.
If no line number entries exist in the object file or if \*Vfcnindx\*O
does not index a function entry in the symbol table,
\*Vldlinit\*O
fails.
If it finds no line number equal to or greater than \*Vlinenum\*O,
\*Vldlitem\*O
fails.
.PP
The programs must be loaded with the object file access routine library
.ie '\*p'' \{
.BR libmld.a .
\}
.el \{
.BR \s-1LIBDIR\s+1\/libmld.a .
\}
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.ie '\*p'' \{
\*Lldclose\*O(3), \*Lldopen\*O(3), \*Lldfcn\*O(4).
\}
.el \{
\*Lldclose\*O(3), \*Lldopen\*O(3), 
\*Lldfcn\*O(4)
\}
.EQ
delim off
.EN
