.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ldlseek.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/11/03 13:45:20 $
.\"
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright Unpublished, MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.  All Rights |
.\" | Reserved.  This software contains proprietary and confidential |
.\" | information of MIPS and its suppliers.  Use, disclosure or     |
.\" | reproduction is prohibited without the prior express written   |
.\" | consent of MIPS.                                               |
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"  ldlseek.3 3.1
.TH ldlseek 3
.SH NAME
ldlseek, ldnlseek \- seek to line number entries of a section of a common object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.ie '\*p'' \{
.B #include <filehdr.h>
.B #include <syms.h>
.B #include <ldfcn.h>\}
.el \{
.B #include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/filehdr.h"
.B #include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/syms.h"
.B #include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/ldfcn.h"\}
.PP
.BR "int ldlseek (" "ldptr, sectindx" )
.BR "\s-1LDFILE\s+1 \(**" ldptr ;
.BR "unsigned short" " sectindx" ;
.PP
.BR "int ldnlseek (" "ldptr, sectname" )
.BR "\s-1LDFILE\s+1 \(**" ldptr ;
.BR "char \(**" sectname ;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ldlseek
seeks to the line number entries of the section specified by
\*Vsectindx\*O
of the common object file
currently associated with
.IR ldptr .
.PP
.B ldnlseek
seeks to the line number entries of the section specified by
.IR sectname .
.PP
.B ldlseek
and
.B ldnlseek
return
.SM
.B SUCCESS
or
.SM
.BR FAILURE .
\*LNOTE:\*O Line numbers are not associated with sections in the current
implementation of the symbol table; therefore, the second argument is
ignored, but maintained for historical purposes.
.PP
If they cannot seek to the specified line number entries,
both routines fail.
.PP
The program must be loaded with the object file access routine library
.ie '\*p'' \{
.BR libmld.a .
\}
.el \{
.BR \s-1LIBDIR\s+1\/libmld.a .
\}
.\" .if !'\*p'' \{
.\" .PP
.\" \*Lintro\*O(4)
.\" describes
.\" .IR \s-1INCDIR\s+1 " and " \s-1LIBDIR\s+1 .
.\" \}
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.ie '\*p'' \{
\*Lldclose\*O(3), \*Lldopen\*O(3), \*Lldshread\*O(3), \*Lldfcn\*O(4).
\}
.el \{
\*Lldclose\*O(3), \*Lldopen\*O(3), \*Lldshread\*O(3), \*Lintro\*O(4),
\*Lldfcn\*O(4)
\}
.EQ
delim off
.EN
