.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ldohseek.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 10:56:51 $
.\"
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright Unpublished, MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.  All Rights |
.\" | Reserved.  This software contains proprietary and confidential |
.\" | information of MIPS and its suppliers.  Use, disclosure or     |
.\" | reproduction is prohibited without the prior express written   |
.\" | consent of MIPS.                                               |
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"  ldohseek.3 3.1
.TH ldohseek 3
.SH NAME
ldohseek \- seek to the optional file header of a common object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ft B
.nf
.ta \w'\s-1LDFILE\s+1\ \ \ 'u
.B #include <stdio.h>
.ie '\*p'' \{
.B #include <filehdr.h>
.B #include <syms.h>
.B #include <ldfcn.h> \}
.el \{
.ft B
#include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/filehdr.h"
#include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/syms.h"
#include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/ldfcn.h" \}
.ft R
.PP
.BR "int ldohseek (" ldptr )
.BR "\s-1LDFILE\s+1 \(**" ldptr ;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ldohseek\^
seeks to the optional file header
of the common object file
currently associated with
.IR ldptr .
.PP
.B ldohseek\^
.RB "returns " \s-1SUCCESS\s+1 " or " \s-1FAILURE\s+1 .
If the object file has no optional header or if it cannot seek to the
optional header,
.B ldohseek\^
fails.
.PP
The program must be loaded with the object file access routine library
.ie '\*p'' \{
.BR libmld.a .
\}
.el \{
.BR \s-1LIBDIR\s+1\/libmld.a .
\}
.\" .if !'\*p'' \{
.\" .PP
.\" \*Lintro\*O(4) describes
.\" .IR \s-1INCDIR\s+1 " and " \s-1LIBDIR\s+1 .
.\" \}
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.ie '\*p'' \{
\*Lldclose\*O(3), \*Lldopen\*O(3), \*Lldfhread\*O(3), \*Lldfcn\*O(4).
\}
.el \{
\*Lldclose\*O(3), \*Lldopen\*O(3), \*Lldfhread\*O(3), \*Lintro\*O(4),
\*Lldfcn\*O(4)
\}
.EQ
delim off
.EN
