.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ldr_inq_region.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/18 13:19:21 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH ldr_inq_region 3
.SH NAME
\*Lldr_inq_region\*O \- Returns module information about a region in a loaded module
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>\*O
.nL
\*L#include <loader.h>\*O
.nL
\*Lint\*O
\*Lldr_inq_region\*O(
.nL
	\*Lldr_process_t\*O \*Vprocess\*O,
.nL
	\*Lldr_module_t\*O \*Vmod_id\*O,
.nL
	\*Lldr_region_t\*O \*Vregion\*O,
.nL
	\*Lldr_region_info_t\*O \*V*info\*O,
.nL
	\*Lsize_t\*O \*Vinfo_size\*O,
.nL
	\*Lsize_t\*O \*V*ret_size\*O);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP 
.\"from TP .5i"  
.VL
.LI "\*Vprocess\*O"
Specifies the process whose address space contains the
module for which the region information is required.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vmod_id\*O" 
Identifies the module.  The module ID
is returned when the module is first loaded.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vregion\*O" 
Identifies the region.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vinfo\*O" 
Points to a
\*Lldr_region_info_t\*O
buffer in which the information about the loaded region is returned.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vinfo_size\*O" 
Specifies the size of the allocated
\*Lldr_region_info_t\*O
structure, in bytes.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vret_size\*O" 
Specifies the number of types actually returned into the
buffer pointed to by the
\*Vinfo\*O
parameter.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "ldr_inq_region function"
.iX "loaded module" "returning region information for"
.iX "loader" "returning region information for loaded module"
.PP 
The
\*Lldr_inq_region(\|)\*O
function returns information about a
specified region within a specified module.  The module is contained within
the address space of the specified process.
The returned information includes
the number and name of the region, its protection attributes, its
size, and address information about the region in the process' address
space.
.PP 
To obtain the unique identifier for the current process, use the
call:
.rS 
	\*Lldr_process_t ldr_my_process(\|);\*O
.rE 
To obtain the unique identifier for the kernel, use the call:
.rS 
	\*Lldr_process_t ldr_kernel_process(\|);\*O
.rE 
The
\*Lldr_region_t\*O
values are unique identifiers for each loaded region for a particular
module.  The value of the
\*Vregion\*O
parameter ranges from 0 (zero) to (maximum number of regions) -1.
.SH NOTES
The loader assumes that each object module contains one or more
regions.  A region is a separately relocated, virtually contiguous
range within a module.  A region can contain text or data.
.PP 
This function is currently implemented only for the current process
and the kernel.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the function returns a value of 0
(zero).  If the operation fails, the function returns a negative error value
and
\*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the
\*Lldr_inq_region(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The specified module ID or region ID is not valid.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ESRCH]" 
The process identifier is not valid.
.LE 
.PP 
Additional errors may be returned from the underlying IPC mechanism
(for kernel/cross-process loading).
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
Functions:
\*Lldr_inq_module\*O(3),
\*Lldr_next_module\*O(3)
.iX "ldr_inq_region function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
