.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ldr_xdetach.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/18 13:20:51 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH ldr_xdetach 3
.SH NAME
\*Lldr_xdetach\*O \- Detaches from an attached process
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>\*O
.nL
\*L#include <loader.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint ldr_xdetach(
.nL
	ldr_process_t \*Vprocess \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vprocess\*O"
Specifies the process from which to detach.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "ldr_xdetach function"
.iX "loader" "detaching from an attached process"
.PP 
The
\*Lldr_xdetach(\|)\*O
function detaches the calling process from
\*Vprocess\*O,
with which it had been associated for cross-process loading and
debugging.  This procedure should be used only if a
\*Lldr_xattach(\|)\*O
was previously performed on the specified
\*Vprocess.\*O
.SH NOTES
.PP 
This function currently works only for the current process and the
kernel.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
If the detach operation is a success, the function returns a value of 0
(zero).  If the detach fails, the function returns a negative value
and
\*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the
\*Lldr_xdetach(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to the following value:
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "[ESRCH]"
The process identifier is invalid.
.LE 
.PP 
Additional errors are possible from the underlying IPC mechanism.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lldr_xattach\*O(3)
.iX "ldr_xdetach function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
