.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ldr_inq_module.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/18 13:19:06 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH ldr_inq_module 3
.SH NAME
\*Lldr_inq_module\*O \- Returns information about a loaded module
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>\*O
.nL
\*L#include <loader.h>\*O
.nL
\*Lint\*O \*Lldr_inq_module\*O(
.nL
	\*Lldr_process_t\*O\*Vprocess\*O,
.nL
\*Lldr_module_t\*O\*Vmod_id\*O,
.nL
\*Lldr_module_info_t\*O\*V*info\*O,
.nL
\*Lsize_t\*O\*Vinfo_size\*O,
.nL
\*Lsize_t\*O\*V*ret_size\*O);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP 
.\"from TP .5i"  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vprocess\*O"
Specifies the process whose address space contains the
module for which information is required.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vmod_id\*O" 
Identifies the module.  The module ID
is returned when the module is first loaded.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vinfo\*O" 
Points to a buffer into which the information is returned.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vinfo_size\*O" 
Specifies the size of the
\*Vinfo\*O
buffer, in bytes.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vret_size\*O" 
Specifies the number of bytes returned into the \*Vinfo\*O buffer.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "ldr_inq_module function"
.iX "loaded module" "returning information about"
.iX "loader" "returning information about loaded module"
.PP 
The
\*Lldr_inq_module(\|)\*O
function returns information about a
specified module contained within
the address space of the specified process into the
variable pointed to by the
\*Vinfo\*O
parameter.
The
\*Vinfo_size\*O
parameter is the size of the buffer provided.  The number of bytes
filled in (that is, the returned structure size) is returned in the
buffer pointed to by the
\*Vret_size\*O
parameter.
.PP 
To obtain the unique process identifier for the current process, use the
call:
.rS 
	\*Lldr_process_t ldr_my_process(\|);\*O
.rE 
To obtain the unique process identifier for the kernel, use the call:
.rS 
	\*Lldr_process_t ldr_kernel_process(\|);\*O
.rE 
.SH NOTES
.PP 
This function is currently only implemented for the current process
and the kernel.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the function returns a value of 0
(zero).  If the operation fails, the function returns a negative error value
and sets
\*Lerrno\*O
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the
\*Lldr_inq_module(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The specified module ID is not valid.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ESRCH]" 
The process identifier is not valid.
.LE 
.PP 
In addition, errors pertaining to the IPC mechanism can be returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
Functions:
\*Lldr_inq_region\*O(3),
\*Lldr_next_module\*O(3)
.iX "ldr_inq_module function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
