.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ldr_xlookup_package.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/06 21:19:49 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH ldr_xlookup_package 3
.SH NAME
\*Lldr_xlookup_package\*O \- Returns the address of a symbol name within a specified package in another process
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>\*O
.nL
\*L#include <loader.h>\*O
.nL
\*Lint\*O
\*Lldr_xlookup_package\*O(
.nL
.wH .in +.5i  
	\*Lldr_process_t\*O\*Vprocess\*O,
.nL
	\*Lchar\*O \*V*package_name\*O,
.nL
	\*Lchar\*O \*V*symbol_name\*O,
.nL
	\*Lvoid\*O \*V**symbol_addr_ptr\*O);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP 
.\"from TP .5i"  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vprocess\*O"
Specifies the process whose address space contains the
package with the symbol whose address is required.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vpackage_name\*O" 
Specifies the name of the package that contains the symbol name.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vsymbol_name\*O" 
Specifies the name of the symbol whose address is required.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vsymbol_addr_ptr\*O" 
Points to a
\*Lvoid*\*O
variable.
The function returns the address for the symbol name in this variable.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "ldr_xlookup_package function"
.iX "loader" "returning address of symbol name in another process package"
.iX "package" "returning address of symbol name in another process"
.iX "symbol name" "returning address in another process package"
.PP 
The
\*Lldr_xlookup_package(\|)\*O
function returns the address of the specified
symbol name within the specified package.  The package is contained within
the address space of the specified process.
.PP 
To obtain the unique identifier for the current process, use the
following call:
.rS 
	\*Lldr_process_t ldr_my_process(\|);\*O
.rE 
To obtain the unique identifier for the kernel, use the following call:
.rS 
	\*Lldr_process_t ldr_kernel_process(\|);\*O
.rE 
.SH NOTES
.PP 
This call currently only supports lookup in the current process or the
kernel.
.PP 
The loader employs a two-dimensional hierarchical symbol name space in
which each symbol is represented by a package name, symbol name pair.
Package names are attached to symbols at link time.  The package
scheme assumes that each symbol name is unique within its package and
that each package name is unique across the system.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
If the operation is a success, the function returns a value of 0
(zero).  If the operation fails, the function returns a negative value
and
\*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the
\*Lldr_xlookup_package(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[ENOPKG]"
The specified package was not found.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOSYM]" 
The specified symbol name was not found in the specified package.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ESRCH]" 
The process identifier is invalid.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ERANGE]" 
The symbol address could not be converted into an absolute value.
.LE 
.PP 
Additional errors may be returned from the underlying IPC mechanism.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lldr_xload\*O(3)
.iX "ldr_xlookup_package function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
