.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ldrseek.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/02/04 13:10:18 $
.\"
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright Unpublished, MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.  All Rights |
.\" | Reserved.  This software contains proprietary and confidential |
.\" | information of MIPS and its suppliers.  Use, disclosure or     |
.\" | reproduction is prohibited without the prior express written   |
.\" | consent of MIPS.                                               |
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"  ldrseek.3 3.1
.TH ldrseek 3
.SH NAME
ldrseek, ldnrseek \- seek to relocation entries of a section of a common object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
.ta \w'unsigned\ 'u +\w'short\ \ 'u
.B #include <stdio.h>
.ie '\*p'' \{\
.B #include <filehdr.h>
.B #include <syms.h>
.B #include <ldfcn.h> \}
.el \{\
.B #include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/filehdr.h"
.B #include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/syms.h"
.B #include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/ldfcn.h" \}
.ft R
.PP
.BR "int ldrseek (" "ldptr, sectindx" )
.BR "\s-1LDFILE\s+1 \(**" ldptr ;
.BR "unsigned short" " sectindx" ;
.PP
.BR "int ldnrseek (" "ldptr, sectname" )
.BR "\s-1LDFILE\s+1 \(**" ldptr ;
.BR "char \(**" sectname ;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ldrseek
seeks to the relocation entries of the section specified by
\*Vsectindx\*O
of the common object file
currently associated with
.IR ldptr .
.PP
.B ldnrseek
seeks to the relocation entries of the section specified by
.IR sectname .
.PP
.B ldrseek
and
.B ldnrseek
.RB "return " \s-1SUCCESS\s+1 " or " \s-1FAILURE\s+1 .
If
\*Vsectindx\*O
is greater than the number of sections in the object file,
.B ldrseek
fails;
if there is no section name corresponding with
.IR sectname,
.B ldnrseek
fails.
If the specified section has no relocation entries or
if it cannot seek to the specified
relocation entries,
either function fails.
.PP
\*LNOTE\*O: The first section has an index of
.IR one .
.PP
The program must be loaded with the object file access routine library
.ie '\*p'' \{\
.BR libmld.a .
\}
.el \{\
.BR \s-1LIBDIR\s+1\/libmld.a .
\}
.\" .PP
.\" .if !'\*p'' \{\
.\" .PP
.\" \*Lintro\*O(4) describes
.\" .IR \s-1INCDIR\s+1 " and " \s-1LIBDIR\s+1 .
.\" \}
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.ie '\*p'' \{\
\*Lldclose\*O(3), \*Lldopen\*O(3), \*Lldshread\*O(3), \*Lldfcn\*O(4).
\}
.el \{\
\*Lldclose\*O(3), \*Lldopen\*O(3), \*Lldshread\*O(3),
\*Lldfcn\*O(4)
\}
.EQ
delim off
.EN
