.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ldshread.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/02/04 13:11:40 $
.\"
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright Unpublished, MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.  All Rights |
.\" | Reserved.  This software contains proprietary and confidential |
.\" | information of MIPS and its suppliers.  Use, disclosure or     |
.\" | reproduction is prohibited without the prior express written   |
.\" | consent of MIPS.                                               |
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"  ldshread.3 3.1
.TH ldshread 3
.SH NAME
ldshread, ldnshread \- read an indexed\/named section header of a common object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ta \w'unsigned\ 'u +\w'short\ \ 'u
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.ie '\*p'' \{\
.B #include <filehdr.h>
.B #include <scnhdr.h>
.B #include <syms.h>
.B #include <ldfcn.h> \}
.el \{\
.B #include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/filehdr.h"
.B #include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/scnhdr.h"
.B #include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/syms.h"
.B #include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/ldfcn.h" \}
.PP
.BR "int ldshread (" "ldptr, sectindx, secthead" )
.BR "\s-1LDFILE\s+1 \(**" ldptr ;
.BR "unsigned short" " sectindx" ;
.BR "\s-1SCNHDR\s+1 \(**" secthead ;
.PP
.BR "int ldnshread (" "ldptr, sectname, secthead" )
.BR "\s-1LDFILE\s+1 \(**" ldptr ;
.BR char " \(**sectname" ;
.BR "\s-1SCNHDR\s+1 \(**" secthead ;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ldshread\^
reads the section header specified by
\*Vsectindx\^\*O
of the common object file
currently associated with
\*Vldptr\^\*O
into the area of memory beginning at
.IR secthead .
.PP
.B ldnshread\^
reads the section header specified by
\*Vsectname\^\*O
into the area of memory beginning at
.IR secthead .
.PP
.B ldshread\^
and
.B ldnshread\^
return
.BR \s-1SUCCESS\s+1 " or " \s-1FAILURE\s+1 .
If
\*Vsectindx\^\*O
is greater than the number of sections in the object file,
.B ldshread \^
fails;
If there is no section name corresponding with
.IR sectname,
.B ldnshread\^
fails.
If it cannot read the specified section header, either function fails.
.PP
\*LNOTE\*O: The first section header has an index of
.IR one .
.PP
The program must be loaded with the object file access routine library
.ie '\*p'' \{\
.BR libmld.a .
\}
.el \{\
.BR \s-1LIBDIR\s+1\/libmld.a .
\}
.\" .PP
.\" .if !'\*p'' \{\
.\" \*Lintro\*O(4) describes
.\" .IR \s-1INCDIR\s+1 " and " \s-1LIBDIR\s+1 .
.\" \}
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.ie '\*p'' \{\
\*Lldclose\*O(3), \*Lldopen\*O(3), \*Lldfcn\*O(4).
\}
.el \{\
\*Lldclose\*O(3), \*Lldopen\*O(3), \*Lldfcn\*O(4)
\}
.EQ
delim off
.EN
