.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ldtbseek.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/02/04 13:16:15 $
.\"
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright Unpublished, MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.  All Rights |
.\" | Reserved.  This software contains proprietary and confidential |
.\" | information of MIPS and its suppliers.  Use, disclosure or     |
.\" | reproduction is prohibited without the prior express written   |
.\" | consent of MIPS.                                               |
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"  ldtbseek.3 3.1
.TH ldtbseek 3
.SH NAME
ldtbseek \- seek to the symbol table of a common object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.ie '\*p'' \{\
.B #include <filehdr.h>
.B #include <syms.h>
.B #include <ldfcn.h>\}
.el \{\
.B #include ~\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/filehdr.h~
.B #include ~\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/syms.h~
.B #include ~\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/ldfcn.h~\}
.tr ~~
.PP
.BR "int ldtbseek (" ldptr )
.BR "\s-1LDFILE\s+1 \(**" ldptr ;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ldtbseek\^
seeks to the symbol table
of the \*N object file
currently associated with
.IR ldptr .
.PP
.B ldtbseek\^
.RB "returns " \s-1SUCCESS\s+1 " or " \s-1FAILURE\s+1 .
If
the symbol table has been stripped from the object file
or if it cannot seek to the symbol table,
.B ldtbseek\^
fails.
.PP
The program must be loaded with the object file access routine library
.ie '\*p'' \{\
.BR libld.a .
\}
.el \{\
.BR \s-1LIBDIR\s+1\/libld.a .
\}
.RE
.\" .if !'\*p'' \{\
.\" .PP
.\" \*Lintro\*O(4) describes
.\" .IR \s-1INCDIR\s+1  and  \s-1LIBDIR\s+1 .
.\" \}
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.ie '\*p'' \{\
\*Lldclose\*O(3), \*Lldopen\*O(3), \*Lldtbread\*O(3), \*Lldfcn\*O(4).
\}
.el \{\
\*Lldclose\*O(3), \*Lldopen\*O(3), \*Lldtbread\*O(3),
\*Lldfcn\*O(4)
\}
.\" @ (#)ldtbseek.3x 1.4 
.EQ
delim off
.EN
