.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ldtbread.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/02/04 13:14:31 $
.\"
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright Unpublished, MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.  All Rights |
.\" | Reserved.  This software contains proprietary and confidential |
.\" | information of MIPS and its suppliers.  Use, disclosure or     |
.\" | reproduction is prohibited without the prior express written   |
.\" | consent of MIPS.                                               |
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"  ldtbread.3 3.1
.TH ldtbread 3
.SH NAME
ldtbread \- read an indexed symbol table entry of a common object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ta \w'\s-1LDFILE\s+1\ \ \ 'u
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.ie '\*p'' \{\
.B #include <filehdr.h>
.B #include <syms.h>
.B #include <ldfcn.h> \}
.el \{\
.B #include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/filehdr.h>
.B #include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/syms.h"
.B #include "\s-1INCDIR\s+1\/ldfcn.h" \}
.PP
.BR "int ldtbread (" "ldptr, symindex, symbol" )
.BR "\s-1LDFILE\s+1 \(**" ldptr ;
.BR long " symindex" ;
.BR "\s-1pSYMR\s+1 \(**" symbol ;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ldtbread\^
reads the symbol table entry specified by
\*Vsymindex\^\*O
of the common object file
currently associated with
\*Vldptr\^\*O
into the area of memory beginning at
.IR symbol .
.PP
.B ldtbread\^
returns
.BR \s-1SUCCESS\s+1 " or " \s-1FAILURE\s+1 .
If
\*Vsymindex\^\*O
is greater than the number of symbols in the object file
or if it cannot read the specified symbol table entry,
.B ldtbread\^
fails.
.PP
The local and external symbols are concatenated into a linear list.
Symbols are accessible from symnum zero
to
.IR SYMHEADER(ldptr).isymMax " + " SYMHEADER(ld-ptr).iextMax .
The index and iss
fields of the \s-1SYMR\s0 are made absolute (rather than file relative)
so that the routines
\*Lldgetname\*O\*O\*O(3), \*Lldgetaux\*O\*O\*O(3),
and
.B ldtbread
proceed normally given those indices.  Only the "sym" part of externals is
returned.
.PP
\*LNOTE\*O: The first symbol in the symbol table has an index of
.IR zero .
.PP
The program must be loaded with the object file access routine library
.ie '\*p'' \{\
.BR libmld.a .
\}
.el \{\
\s-1LIBDIR\s+1\/libmld.a .
\}
.\" .if !'\*p'' \{\
.\" .PP
.\" \*Lintro\*O(5) describes
.\" .IR \s-1INCDIR\s+1  and  \s-1LIBDIR\s+1 .
.\" \}
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.ie '\*p'' \{\
\*Lldclose\*O(3), \*Lldgetname\*O(3), \*Lldopen\*O(3), \*Lldtbseek\*O(3),
\*Lldgetname\*O(3), \*Lldfcn\*O(4).
\}
.el \{\
\*Lldclose\*O(3), \*Lldopen\*O(3), \*Lldtbseek\*O(3),
\*Lldfcn\*O(4)
\}
.\" @ (#)ldtbread.3x 1.5 
.tr ~"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
