.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: libAF.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/05/14 16:55:14 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.TH libAF 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*LlibAF\*O \- Provides Attribute File Library functions to manipulate file attributes
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Attribute File Library (\*LlibAF.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <AFdefs.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lvoid AFclose(\*L
.nL
	AFILE_t \*Vaf\*L);\*O
.sp 0.4v
\*LATTR_t AFgetatr(\*L
.nL
	ENT_t \*Ventry\*L,
.nL
	\*Lchar *\*Vname\*L);\*O
.sp 0.4v
\*LENT_t AFgetent(\*L
.nL
	AFILE_t \*Vaf\*L,
.nL
	\*Lchar *\*Vname\*L);\*O
.sp 0.4v
\*LENT_t AFgetent(\*L
.nL
	AFILE_t \*Vaf\*L,
.nL
	\*Lchar *\*Vname\*L);\*O
.sp 0.4v
\*Lchar *AFgetval(\*L
.nL
	ATTR_t \*Vattr\*L);\*O
.sp 0.4v
\*LATTR_t AFnxtatr(\*L
.nL
	ENT_t \*Ventry\*L);\*O
.sp 0.4v
\*LENT_t AFnxtent(\*L
.nL
	AFILE_t \*Vaf\*L);\*O
.sp 0.4v
\*Lchar *AFnxtval(\*L
.nL
	ATTR_t \*Vattr\*L);\*O
.sp 0.4v
\*LAFILE_t AFopen(\*L
.nL
	\*Lchar *\*Vfilename\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vmaxrecsiz\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vmaxnumatr\*L);\*O
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint AFread(\*L
.nL
	\*Vaf\*L);\*O
.sp 0.4v
\*Lvoid AFrewind(\*L
.nL
	\*LAFILE_t \*Vaf\*L);\*O
.sp 0.4v
\*Lvoid AFsetdflt(\*L
.nL
	\*LAFILE_t \*Vaf\*L,
.nL
	\*Lchar *\*Vdflt\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vaf\*O"
Specifies the attribute file to be closed.
.LI "\*Ventry\*O"
Specifies the entry name.
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Specifies the name of an attribute value.
.LI "\*Vattr\*O"
Specifies the attribute value in the attribute list.
.LI "\*Vfilename\*O"
Specifies the attribute filename.
.LI "\*Vmaxrecsiz\*O"
Specifies the maximum size of a record in bytes.
.LI "\*Vmaxnumatr\*O"
Specifies the maximum number of attributes per record.
.LI "\*Vdflt\*O"
Points to the character name string of an attribute file structure.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "scalability library"
.iX "AFopen function"
.iX "AFrewind function"
.iX "AFclose function"
.iX "AFsetdflt function"
.iX "AFread function"
.iX "AFgetval function"
.iX "AFnxtval function"
.iX "AFgetent function"
.iX "AFnxtent function"
.iX "AFgetatr function"
.iX "AFnxtatr function"
The \*LlibAF\*O functions are provided for programs that use
attribute files.  These functions perform the following:
.VL
.LI "\*LAFclose(\|)\*O"
Closes the specified attribute file.
.LI "\*LAFgetatr(\|)\*O"
Gets the attribute value matching \*Vname\*O from the attribute list.
Returns a pointer
\*Ventry\*O to the value of \*Vname\*O.
.LI "\*LAFgetent(\|)\*O"
Finds the first entry in an attribute file which has the specified
\*Vname\*O.  Returns a pointer \*Vaf\*O to an attribute structure.
.LI "\*LAFgetval(\|)\*O"
Gets the next attribute value from the attribute list for the
specified attribute value.  Returns a
pointer \*Vattr\*O to the character string of the first value in the
attribute list.
.LI "\*LAFnxtatr(\|)\*O"
Gets the next attribute from the entry list for the attribute file
\*Ventry\*O.  Returns a
pointer to an attribute structure.
.LI "\*LAFnxtent(\|)\*O"
Gets the next entry from an attribute file.  Merges in any default
entry that proceeds it.  Returns a pointer to an attribute structure.
.LI "\*LAFnxtval(\|)\*O"
Gets the next attribute value from the attribute list for the current
attribute.  Returns a
pointer to the next string value in the attribute list.
.LI "\*LAFopen(\|)\*O"
Opens the specified attribute file.  Returns a pointer to an attribute
file structure.
.LI "\*LAFread(\|)\*O"
Reads the next entry from an attribute file.  Fills in the current
attribute table and buffer.
.LI "\*LAFrewind(\|)\*O"
Moves to the beginning of the specified attribute file.
.LI "\*LAFsetdflt(\|)\*O"
Sets the default entry name for the specified attribute file.
.LE
.\".zZ "defect, 7287, R1.1.2, new page"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lstanza\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
