.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: link.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 10:58:48 $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)link.3f 6.1 (Berkeley) 5/15/85
.\"
.TH link 3
.SH NAME
link \- make a link to an existing file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B function link (name1, name2)
.br
.B character*(*) name1, name2
.sp 1
.B integer function symlnk (name1, name2)
.br
.B character*(*) name1, name2
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\*VName1\*O
must be the pathname of an existing file.
\*VName2\*O
is a pathname to be linked to file
.IR name1 .
\*VName2\*O
must not already exist.
The returned value will be 0 if successful; a system error code otherwise.
.PP
\*VSymlnk\*O
creates a symbolic link to
.IR name1 .
.SH FILES
.PP
.ie \nM /usr/ucb/lib/libU77.a
.el /usr/lib/libU77.a
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Llink\*O(2), \*Lsymlink\*O(2), \*Lperror\*O(3), \*Lunlink\*O(3)
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Pathnames can be no longer than MAXPATHLEN as defined in
.RI < sys/param.h >.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
