.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: localeconv.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/19 16:22:23 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH localeconv 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Llocaleconv\*O \- Retrieves locale-dependent formatting parameters
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <locale.h>
.nL
struct lconv *localeconv(void)\*O
.sE
.\" Removed ignore block with localeconv_r synopsis and parameters to
.\" prevent potential formatting problems.  LW
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "localeconv function"
.\" .iX "localeconv_r function"
.iX "locale-dependent parameters"
.iX "parameters" "locale-dependent"
The \*Llocaleconv(\|)\*O function provides access to the object that
specifies the current locale's conventions for the format of numeric
quantities.
.PP
The \*Llconv\*O structure
contains values appropriate for formatting numeric quantities
(monetary and otherwise) according to the rules of the current locale.
The members of the structure with the type \*Lchar *\*O are pointers to
strings, any of which (except \*Ldecimal_point\*O) can point to
a null string, to indicate that the value is not available
in the current locale or is of zero length.  The members with type \*Lchar\*O
are nonnegative numbers, any of which can be \*LCHAR_MAX\*O
to indicate that the value is not available in the current locale.
The members include the following:
.VL
.LI "\*Lchar *decimal_point\*O"
The decimal-point character used to format nonmonetary quantities.
.LI "\*Lchar *thousands_sep\*O"
The separator for groups
of digits to the left of the decimal point in formatted nonmonetary
quantities.
.LI "\*Lchar *grouping\*O"
A string whose elements indicate the size
of each group of digits in formatted nonmonetary quantities.
.LI "\*Lchar *int_curr_symbol\*O"
The international currency symbol
applicable to the current locale, left justified within a 4-character,
space-padded field.  The character sequences are in accordance with
those specified in \*VISO 4217 Codes for the Representation of Currency
and Funds\*O.
.LI "\*Lchar *currency_symbol\*O"
The currency symbol applicable to the current locale.
.LI "\*Lchar *mon_decimal_point\*O"
The decimal point used to format monetary quantities.
.LI "\*Lchar *mon_thousands_sep\*O"
The separator for groups of digits
to the left of the decimal point in formatted monetary quantities.
.LI "\*Lchar *mon_grouping\*O"
A string whose elements indicate the
size of each group of digits in formatted monetary quantities.
.LI "\*Lchar *positive_sign\*O"
The string used to indicate a nonnegative formatted monetary quantity.
.LI "\*Lchar *negative_sign\*O"
The string used to indicate a negative formatted monetary quantity.
.LI "\*Lchar int_frac_digits\*O"
The number of fractional digits
(those to the right of the decimal point) to be displayed in an
internationally formatted monetary quantity.
.LI "\*Lchar frac_digits\*O"
The number of fractional digits (those to the right of the decimal
point) to be displayed in a formatted monetary quantity.
.LI "\*Lchar p_cs_precedes\*O"
Set to 1 or 0 (zero) if the \*Lcurrency_symbol\*O
respectively precedes or succeeds the value for a nonnegative formatted
monetary quantity.
.LI "\*Lchar p_sep_by_space\*O"
Set to 1 or 0 (zero) if the \*Lcurrency_symbol\*O
respectively is or is not separated by a space from the value
for a nonnegative formatted monetary quantity.
.LI "\*Lchar n_cs_precedes\*O"
Set to 1 or 0 (zero) if the \*Lcurrency_symbol\*O
respectively precedes or succeeds the value for a negative formatted
monetary quantity.
.LI "\*Lchar n_sep_by_space\*O"
Set to 1 or 0 (zero) if the \*Lcurrency_symbol\*O
respectively is or is not separated by a space from the value
for a negative formatted monetary quantity.
.LI "\*Lchar p_sign_posn\*O"
Set to a value indicating the positioning
of the \*Lpositive_sign\*O for nonnegative formatted monetary quantity.
.LI "\*Lchar n_sign_posn\*O"
Set to a value indicating the positioning
of the \*Lnegative_sign\*O for a negative formatted monetary quantity.
.LI "\*Lchar* left_parenthesis\*O"
The left bracket used to display
a negative formatted monetary quantity. This is the locale's
equivalent to the "(" (left parenthesis) used in the C locale and is
used in conjunction with the \*Lright_parenthesis\*O.
.IP
This member
of the \*Llconv\*O structure is an extension to
X/Open specifications and therefore may not
be supported on all systems that conform to XPG4.
.LI "\*Lchar* right_parenthesis\*O"
The right bracket used to display a negative formatted monetary quantity.
This is the locale's
equivalent to the ")" (right parenthesis) used in the C locale and is
used in conjunction with the \*Lleft_parenthesis\*O.
.IP
This member of the \*Llconv\*O structure
is an extension to X/Open specifications and therefore may not
be supported on all systems that conform to XPG4.
.LE
.PP
The elements of \*Lgrouping\*O and \*Lmon_grouping\*O are
interpreted according to the following:
.VL
.LI "\*LCHAR_MAX\*O"
No further grouping is to be performed.
.LI "\*L0\*O"
The previous element is to be repeatedly used for the
remainder of the digits.
.LI "\*Lother\*O"
The integer value is the number of digits that comprise
the current group.  The next element is examined to determine the
size of the next group of digits to the left of the current group.
.LE
.PP
The values of \*Lp_sign_posn\*O and \*Ln_sign_posn\*O are
interpreted according to the following:
.VL
.LI "\*L0\*O"
Parentheses surround the quantity and \*Lcurrency_symbol\*O.
.LI "\*L1\*O"
The sign string precedes the quantity and \*Lcurrency_symbol\*O.
.LI "\*L2\*O"
The sign string succeeds the quantity and \*Lcurrency_symbol\*O.
.LI "\*L3\*O"
The sign string immediately precedes the \*Lcurrency_symbol\*O.
.LI "\*L4\*O"
The sign string immediately succeeds the \*Lcurrency_symbol\*O.
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
Library functions do not call the \*Llocaleconv(\|)\*O function.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use (\*Llocaleconv(\|)\*O).
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Llocaleconv(\|)\*O
function returns a pointer to the filled-in object.
The structure
pointed to by the return value will not be modified by the program,
but can be overwritten by a subsequent call to the \*Llocaleconv(\|)\*O
function.  In addition, calls to the \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O
function with categories \*LLC_ALL\*O,
\*LLC_MONETARY\*O or \*LLC_NUMERIC\*O can overwrite the contents
of the structure.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lsetlocale\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
