.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mblen.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/24 21:02:30 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH mblen 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lmblen\*O \- Determines the length in bytes of a multibyte character
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <stdlib.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint mblen(
.nL
        \*Lconst char *\*Vmbs\*L,
.nL
        \*Lsize_t \*Vn\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vmbs\*O"
Points to a multibyte character string.
.LI "\*Vn\*O"
Specifies the maximum number of bytes to consider.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "mblen function"
.iX "character" "finding length of multibyte"
The \*Lmblen(\|)\*O function determines the number of bytes
in a multibyte character. The behavior of the \*Lmblen(\|)\*O function
is affected by the \*LLC_CTYPE\*O category of the current locale.
.PP
In locales with shift-state character encoding, a call to
\*Lmblen(\|)\*O with a null pointer as the \*Vmbs\*O parameter, places
the function in the initial shift state. A call to
\*Lmblen(\|)\*O with an \*Vmbs\*O parameter that is not a null
pointer, may change the shift state for subsequent calls to \*Lmblen(\|)\*O,
depending on the character examined.
Changing the \*LLC_CTYPE\*O category of the locale causes the shift
state of the function to be indeterminate.
The implementation behaves as though no other function calls the
\*Lmblen(\|)\*O function.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If the \*Vmbs\*O parameter is not a null pointer,
the \*Lmblen(\|)\*O function returns a value determined as follows:
.ML
.LI
If \*Vmbs\*O points to a valid multibyte character other than the null
character,
\*Lmblen(\|)\*O returns the number of bytes in the character unless the
number of bytes is greater than \*Vn\*O.
.LI
If \*Vmbs\*O points to the null character,
\*Lmblen(\|)\*O returns a value of 0 (zero).
.LI
If \*Vmbs\*O does not point to a valid multibyte character
or points to a character of more than \*Vn\*O bytes,
\*Lmblen(\|)\*O returns a value of -1 and
sets \*Lerrno\*O to indicate the error.
.LE
.PP
If the \*Vmbs\*O parameter is a null pointer, the return value depends on whether
the character encoding in the current locale is shift-state dependent.
.ML
.LI
If the character encoding is shift-state dependent, \*Lmblen(\|)\*O
returns a nonzero value.
.LI
If the character encoding is not shift-state dependent, \*Lmblen(\|)\*O
returns a value of 0 (zero).
.LE
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the following condition occurs, the \*Lmblen(\|)\*O function sets
\*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value.
.VL 1i
.LI "[EILSEQ]"
The \*Vmbs\*O parameter points to an invalid multibyte character or
the number of bytes in the character is greater than the value of
the \*Vn\*O parameter.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lmbtowc\*O(3),
\*Lwctomb\*O(3),
\*Lmbstowcs\*O(3),
\*Lwcstombs\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
