.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mbstowcs.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/25 21:56:07 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.\"
.TH mbstowcs 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lmbstowcs\*O \- Converts a multibyte character string to a wide character string
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <stdlib.h>
.PP
\*Lsize_t mbstowcs(
.nL
        \*Lwchar_t *\*Vpwcs\*L,
.nL
        \*Lconst char *\*Vs\*L,
.nL
        \*Lsize_t \*Vn\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vpwcs\*O"
Points to the array where the result of the conversion is stored.
.LI "\*Vs\*O"
Points to the multibyte character string to be converted.
.LI "\*Vn\*O"
Specifies the number of wide characters in the destination array.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "mbstowcs function"
.iX "character string" "converting multibyte to wide"
The \*Lmbstowcs(\|)\*O function converts a multibyte character string into
a wide character string, which is stored at a specified location.
.\" Next sentence changed to XPG4 wording as per Tom Woodburn; original
.\" sentence was tough to read
No characters that follow a null byte (which is converted into a
wide-character code with value zero) will be examined or converted.
When operating on overlapping strings, the behavior of this
function is undefined.
.PP
Behavior of the \*Lmbstowcs(\|)\*O
function is affected by the \*LLC_CTYPE\*O category of the current locale.
In environments that use shift-state-dependent encoding, the array pointed
to by the \*Vs\*O parameter begins in the initial shift state.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
When \*Lmbstowcs(\|)\*O encounters an invalid multibyte character during
conversion, the function returns a value of -1 cast to
\*Lsize_t\*O and sets \*Lerrno\*O to indicate the error.
Otherwise, \*Lmbstowcs(\|)\*O returns the number of wide
characters stored in the output array, not including a terminating
null wide character. (When the return value is \*Vn\*O, the output array is not
null-terminated.)
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the following condition occurs, the \*Lmbstowcs(\|)\*O function
sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.VL 1i
.LI "[EILSEQ]"
The \*Vs\*O
parameter points to a string containing an invalid multibyte character.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lmblen\*O(3),
\*Lmbtowc\*O(3),
\*Lwctomb\*O(3),
\*Lwcstombs\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
