.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mbtowc.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 22:24:20 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.\"
.TH mbtowc 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lmbtowc\*O \- Converts a multibyte character to a wide character
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <stdlib.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint mbtowc(
.nL
        \*Lwchar_t *\*Vpwc\*L,
.nL
        \*Lconst char *\*Vs\*L,
.nL
        \*Lsize_t \*Vn\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vpwc\*O"
Points to the wide character variable location.
.LI "\*Vs\*O"
Points to the multibyte character to be converted.
.LI "\*Vn\*O"
Specifies the number of bytes in the multibyte character.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "mbtowc function"
.iX "character" "converting multibyte to wide"
The \*Lmbtowc(\|)\*O function converts a multibyte character
to a wide character and returns the number of bytes of the multibyte
character, which is stored as an output variable.
.PP
In locales with shift-state character encoding, a call to
\*Lmbtowc(\|)\*O with a null pointer as the \*Vs\*O parameter places
the function in the initial shift state. A call to
\*Lmbtowc(\|)\*O with an \*Vs\*O parameter that is not a null
pointer may change the shift state for subsequent calls to \*Lmbtowc(\|)\*O,
depending on the character examined.
Changing the \*LLC_CTYPE\*O category of the locale causes the shift
state of the function to be indeterminate.
The implementation behaves as though no other function calls the
\*Lmbtowc(\|)\*O function.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If the \*Vs\*O parameter is not a null pointer,
the \*Lmbtowc(\|)\*O function returns the following values:
.ML
.LI
When \*Vs\*O points to a valid multibyte character other than the null
character,
\*Lmbtowc(\|)\*O returns the number of bytes in the character unless the
character contains more than the number of bytes specified by the
\*Vn\*O parameter.
.LI
When \*Vs\*O points to a null character, \*Lmbtowc(\|)\*O returns a
value of 0 (zero).
.LI
When \*Vs\*O does not point to a valid multibyte character or points to
a character having more than the number of bytes expressed by the
\*Vn\*O parameter, \*Lmbtowc(\|)\*O returns a value of -1 and sets \*Lerrno\*O
to indicate the error.
.LE
.PP
If the \*Vs\*O parameter is a null pointer, the return value depends on whether
the character encoding in the current locale is shift-state dependent.
.ML
.LI
If the character encoding is shift-state dependent, \*Lmbtowc(\|)\*O
returns a nonzero value.
.LI
If the character encoding is not shift-state dependent, \*Lmbtowc(\|)\*O
returns a value of 0 (zero).
.LE
.PP
The return value is never greater than the value specified by the
\*Vn\*O parameter or the value of \*LMB_CUR_MAX\*O.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the following condition occurs, the \*Lmbtowc(\|)\*O function sets
\*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value.
.VL
.LI "[EILSEQ]"
The \*Vs\*O parameter points to an invalid multibyte character or a
multibyte character with more than \*Vn\*O bytes.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lmblen\*O(3),
\*Lwctomb\*O(3),
\*Lmbstowcs\*O(3),
\*Lwcstombs\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
