.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mkfifo.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/08 16:17:53 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.\"build rmifdef tbl eqn
.TH mkfifo 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lmkfifo\*O \- Creates a FIFO
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.br
System V Compatibility Library (\*Llibsys5.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.nL
\*L#include <sys/stat.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint mkfifo (
.nL
	\*Lconst char *\*Vpath\*L,
.nL
	\*Lmode_t \*Vmode \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*Vpath\*O"
Names the new file.
If the final component of the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter
names a
symbolic link, the link will be traversed and
pathname resolution will continue.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vmode\*O"
Specifies the type, attributes, and access
permissions of the file. This parameter is constructed by logically
ORing values
described in the \*Lsys/mode.h\*O header file.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "mkfifo function"
.iX "FIFO" "creating"
.PP
The \*Lmkfifo\*O function used with \*Llibc.a\*O is an interface to
the \*Lmknod\*O function, where the file that is to be created is a
FIFO special file.
.PP
When used with \*Llibsys5.a\*O, the \*Lmkfifo(\|)\*O
function creates a uni-directional STREAMS based
file descriptor.  The FIFO created is represented in the file
system as a character special file.
.PP
No special system privileges
are required under either implementation.
.PP
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lmkfifo(\|)\*O
function marks the
\*Lst_atime\*O,
\*Lst_ctime\*O,
and
\*Lst_mtime\*O
fields of the file for update, and sets the
\*Lst_ctime\*O
and
\*Lst_mtime\*O
fields of the directory that contains the new entry for update.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion of
\*Lmkfifo(\|)\*O,
a value of 0 (zero) is returned.  Otherwise,
a value of -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lmkfifo(\|)\*O function fails, the new file is not created
and
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EACCES]"
A component of the path prefix denies search permission, or write
permission is denied on the parent directory of the FIFO to be
created.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EDQUOT]"
The directory in which the entry for the new link
is being placed cannot be extended because the user's quota of disk
blocks or inodes on the file system is exhausted.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EEXIST]"
The named file exists.
.LI "[ELOOP]"
Too many links were encountered in translating
\*Vpath\*O.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[ENAMETOOLONG]"
The length of the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter exceeds PATH_MAX or a pathname component is longer than
NAME_MAX.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOENT]"
A component of the path prefix does not exist or the
\*Vpath\*O
parameter points to an empty string.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOSPC]"
The directory that would contain the new file
cannot be extended or the file system is out of file allocation resources.
.LI "[ENOTDIR]"
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.LI "[EMFILE]"
No more file descriptors are available for this process.
.LI "[EMFILE]"
The system file table is full, or the device containing the pipes
has no free inodes.
.LI "[EPERM]"
The mode parameter specifies a file type other than S_IFIFO
and the calling process does not have the DEV_CONFIG system
privilege.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[EROFS]"
The directory in which the file is to be created
is located on a read-only file system.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:
\*Lchmod\*O(1),
\*Lmkdir\*O(1)
.PP
Functions:
\*Lchmod\*O(2),
\*Lmkdir\*O(2),
\*Lmknod\*O(2),
\*Lopen\*O(2),
\*Lstat\*O(2),
\*Lumask\*O(2)
.iX "mkfifo function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
