.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mktimer.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/18 13:26:28 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH mktimer 3
.SH NAME
\*Lmktimer\*O \- Allocates a per-process timer
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/timers.h\*O>\*L
.sp .4v
\*Ltimer_t mktimer\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vclock_type\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vnotify_type\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lvoid\*O *\*Vreserved\*O) ;
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vclock_type\*O"
Specifies the system-wide clock to be used as a per-process time base for
the new timer.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vnotify_type\*O" 
Specifies the mechanism by which a process is to be
notified when the per-process timer times out.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vreserved\*O" 
Not used.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "mktimer function"
.iX "timer" "allocating per-process"
.iX "process" "allocating timers for"
The \*Lmktimer(\|)\*O function is used to allocate a per-process
timer using a specified system-wide clock as its timebase.
The \*Lmktimer(\|)\*O function returns a unique timer ID of type
\*Ltimer_t\*O, which is used to identify the timer in per-process
timer requests.
.PP
Each implementation of per-process timers defines a set of clocks that
can be used as a time base for per-process timers, and one or more
mechanisms for notifying the process that a per-process timer has
expired.  OSF/1 allows each process to allocate one per-process timer
whose \*Vclock_type\*O parameter is specified by the TIMEOFDAY
symbolic constant, which is defined in the \*Ltimers.h\*O include
file, using the notification mechanism whose \*Vnotify_type\*O
parameter is specified by the DELIVERY_SIGNALS symbolic
constant.
.PP
When the \*Vnotify_type\*O parameter is specified as DELIVERY_SIGNALS,
the system sends a SIGALRM signal to the process whenever the timer
expires.
.PP
.SH NOTES
Per-process timers are not inherited by a child process across
\*Lfork(\|)\*O or \*Lexec\*O(\|) functions.
.PP 
The
\*Vreserved\*O
parameter is not currently used, but is specified for future support
of other delivery mechanisms.
.PP 
The
\*Lmktimer(\|)\*O
function is part of the POSIX 1003.4 real time extensions, which is
not an approved standard.  As such, it is liable to change.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Trial use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion,
the \*Lmktimer(\|)\*O function returns a \*Vtimer_t\*O value,
which may be passed to a per-process timer call.
Otherwise, \*Lmktimer(\|)\*O returns a value
of (\*Vtimer_t\*O)-1 and sets \*Lerrno\*O to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If the \*Lmktimer(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following
values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EAGAIN]"
The calling process has already allocated all available timers.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EINVAL]" 
The \*Vclock_type\*O or
\*Vnotify_type\*O parameter
is invalid.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lexec\*O(2),
\*Lfork\*O(2),
\*Lgetclock\*O(3),
\*Lgettimer\*O(3),
\*Lreltimer\*O(3),
\*Lrmtimer\*O(3),
\*Lsetclock\*O(3)
.iX "mktimer function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
