.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: move.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/15 18:48:15 $
.\"
.TH move 3
.SH NAME
\*Lmove\*O, \*Lwmove\*O \- Moves the cursor in the window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O

\*Lmove(\*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L)\*O

\*Lwmove(\*Vwin\*L, \*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L;
    int \*Vy\*L, \*Vx\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "move macro (curses)"
.iX "wmove subroutine"
The \*Lmove\*O routine moves the
cursor associated with the default window to the given
location (y, x), where \*Ly\*O is the row, and \*Lx\*O
is the column.
This routine does not move the physical cursor of the terminal until
the \*Lrefresh\*O routine is called.
.PP
The \*Lwmove\*O routine moves the cursor associated with
the specified window to the given location (y, x).
This does not move the physical cursor of the terminal until
the \*Lwrefresh\*O routine is called.
.PP
For both routines, the position specified is relative to the
upper left corner of the window, which is (0,0).
.PP
The routine \*Lmove\*O is a macro.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lrefresh\*O(3), \*Lwrefresh\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
