.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: MrmCloseHierarchy.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 18:44:30 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH MrmCloseHierarchy 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LMrmCloseHierarchy\*O \- Closes a UID hierarchy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Mrm/MrmPublic.h>\*L
.sp \n(PDu
.ta .5i 1.5i
Cardinal MrmCloseHierarchy(\*Vhierarchy_id\*L)
	MrmHierarchy	\*Vhierarchy_id\*L;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "MrmCloseHierarchy"
.iX "uil functions" "MrmCloseHierarchy"
.iX "uid hierarchy"
.iX "MRM function" "MrmCloseHierarchy"
.iX "MrmCloseHierarchy" "definition"
The
\*LMrmCloseHierarchy\*O
function
.iX "MrmCloseHierarchy" "description"
closes a UID hierarchy previously opened by \*LMrmOpenHierarchyPerDisplay\*O.
All files associated with the hierarchy are closed by the
Motif Resource Manager (MRM) and all associated memory is returned.
.VL 1.0i 
.LI "\*Vhierarchy_id\*O"
Specifies the ID of a previously opened UID hierarchy.
The \*Vhierarchy_id\*O was returned in a previous call to
\*LMrmOpenHierarchyPerDisplay\*O.
.nL
.ne 15
.LE 
.SH RETURN VALUE
.iX "MrmSUCCESS"
.iX "MrmBAD_HIERARCHY"
.iX "MrmFAILURE"
This function returns one of these status return constants:
.VL 1.5i 
.LI "\*LMrmSUCCESS\*O"
The function executed successfully.
.LI "\*LMrmBAD_HIERARCHY\*O"
The hierarchy ID was invalid.
.LI "\*LMrmFAILURE\*O"
The function failed.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LMrmOpenHierarchyPerDisplay(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
