.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: MrmInitialize.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 18:46:02 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH MrmInitialize 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LMrmInitialize\*O \- Prepares an application to use MRM widget-fetching facilities
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
void MrmInitialize()
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "MrmInitialize"
.iX "uil functions" "MrmInitialize"
.iX "MRM function" "MrmInitialize"
.iX "MrmInitialize" "definition"
The
\*LMrmInitialize\*O
function must be called to prepare an application to use MRM
widget-fetching facilities.
You must call this function prior to fetching a widget.
However, it is good programming practice to call
\*LMrmInitialize\*O
prior to performing any
MRM operations.
.PP 
\*LMrmInitialize\*O
initializes
.iX "MrmInitialize" "description"
the internal data structures that MRM needs to
successfully perform type
conversion on arguments and to successfully access widget creation
facilities.
An application must call
\*LMrmInitialize\*O
before it uses other
MRM functions.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
