.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: MrmOpenHierarchy.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/14 17:45:23 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH MrmOpenHierarchy 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LMrmOpenHierarchy\*O \- Allocates a hierarchy ID and opens all the UID files in the hierarchy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Mrm/MrmPublic.h>
.sp \n(PDu
.ta 1i
Cardinal MrmOpenHierarchy(\*Vnum_files, file_names_list, 
                    ancillary_structures_list, hierarchy_id\*L)
.ta .5i 2.5i
	MrmCount	\*Vnum_files\*L;
	String	\*Vfile_names_list\*L[];
	MrmOsOpenParamPtr	*\*Vancillary_structures_list\*L;
	MrmHierarchy	*\*Vhierarchy_id\*L;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "MrmOpenHierarchy"
.iX "uil functions" "MrmOpenHierarchy"
.iX "MRM function" "MrmOpenHierarchy"
.iX "MrmOpenHierarchy" "definition"
This routine is obsolete and exists for compatibility with previous
releases.  It is replaced by \*LMrmOpenHierarchyPerDisplay\*O.
\*LMrmOpenHierarchy\*O is identical to \*LMrmOpenHierarchyPerDisplay\*O
except that \*LMrmOpenHierarchy\*O does not take a \*Vdisplay\*O
argument.
.VL 1.7i 
.LI "\*Vnum_files\*O"
Specifies the number of files in the name list.
.LI "\*Vfile_names_list\*O"
Specifies an array of character strings that identify
the UID files.
.LI "\*Vancillary_structures_list\*O"
A list of operating-system-dependent ancillary structures corresponding
to such things as filenames, clobber flag, and so forth.
This argument should be NULL for most operations.
If you need to reference this structure,
see the definition of
\*LMrmOsOpenParamPtr\*O
in
\*LMrmPublic.h\*O
for more information.
.LI "\*Vhierarchy_id\*O"
Returns the search hierarchy ID.
The search hierarchy ID identifies the list of UID files that
MRM searches (in order) when performing subsequent
fetch calls.
.LE 
.PP 
Each UID file string in \*Vfile_names_list\*O can specify either a full
pathname or a filename.
If a UID file string has a leading slash (/), it specifies a full
pathname, and MRM opens the file as specified.
Otherwise, the UID file string specifies a filename.
In this case MRM looks for the file along a search path specified by the
\*LUIDPATH\*O environment variable or by a default search path, which
varies depending on whether or not the \*LXAPPLRESDIR\*O environment
variable is set.
.PP 
The \*LUIDPATH\*O environment variable specifies a search path and
naming conventions associated with UID files.
It can contain the substitution field %U, where the UID file string from
the \*Vfile_names_list\*O argument to \*LMrmOpenHierarchyPerDisplay\*O is
substituted for %U.
It can also contain the substitution fields accepted by
\*LXtResolvePathname\*O.
The substitution field %T is always mapped to \*Luid\*O.
The entire path is first searched with %S mapped to \*L\&.uid\*O and
then, if no file is found, is searched again with %S mapped to NULL.
.PP
If no display is set prior to calling this function, the result of
this function's call to \*LXtResolvePathname\*O is undefined.
.PP
For example, the following \*LUIDPATH\*O value and
\*LMrmOpenHierarchy\*O call cause MRM to open two separate UID files:
.oS
UIDPATH=/uidlib/%L/%U.uid:/uidlib/%U/%L
  static char *uid_files[] = {"/usr/users/me/test.uid", "test2"};
  MrmHierarchy  *Hierarchy_id;
  MrmOpenHierarchy((MrmCount)2,uid_files, NULL, Hierarchy_id)
.oE
.PP 
MRM opens the first file, \*L/usr/users/me/test.uid\*O, as specified in
the \*Vfile_names_list\*O argument to \*LMrmOpenHierarchy\*O, because
the UID file string in the \*Vfile_names_list\*O argument specifies a
full pathname.
MRM looks for the second file,
.ne 6
\*Ltest2\*O,
first as
\*L/uidlib/%L/test2.uid\*O
and second as
\*L/uidlib/test2/%L\*O,
where the display's language string is substituted for %L.
.PP 
After
\*LMrmOpenHierarchy\*O
opens the UID hierarchy, you should not delete or modify the
UID files until you close the UID hierarchy by calling
\*LMrmCloseHierarchy\*O.
.PP 
If \*LUIDPATH\*O is not set but the environment variable
\*LXAPPLRESDIR\*O is set, MRM searches the following pathnames:
.iS
.ta 1i
	22:59:55S
	$XAPPLRESDIR/%L/uid/%N/22:59:55S
	$XAPPLRESDIR/%l/uid/%N/22:59:55S
	$XAPPLRESDIR/uid/%N/22:59:55S
	$XAPPLRESDIR/%L/uid/22:59:55S
	$XAPPLRESDIR/%l/uid/22:59:55S
	$XAPPLRESDIR/uid/22:59:55S
	$HOME/uid/22:59:55S
	$HOME/22:59:55S
	/usr/lib/X11/%L/uid/%N/22:59:55S
	/usr/lib/X11/%l/uid/%N/22:59:55S
	/usr/lib/X11/uid/%N/22:59:55S
	/usr/lib/X11/%L/uid/22:59:55S
	/usr/lib/X11/%l/uid/22:59:55S
	/usr/lib/X11/uid/22:59:55S
	/usr/include/X11/uid/22:59:55S
.wH .fi
.iE
.PP 
If neither \*LUIDPATH\*O nor \*LXAPPLRESDIR\*O is set, MRM searches the
following pathnames:
.iS
.ta 1i
	22:59:55S
	$HOME/%L/uid/%N/22:59:55S
	$HOME/%l/uid/%N/22:59:55S
	$HOME/uid/%N/22:59:55S
	$HOME/%L/uid/22:59:55S
	$HOME/%l/uid/22:59:55S
	$HOME/uid/22:59:55S
	$HOME/22:59:55S
	/usr/lib/X11/%L/uid/%N/22:59:55S
	/usr/lib/X11/%l/uid/%N/22:59:55S
	/usr/lib/X11/uid/%N/22:59:55S
	/usr/lib/X11/%L/uid/22:59:55S
	/usr/lib/X11/%l/uid/22:59:55S
	/usr/lib/X11/uid/22:59:55S
	/usr/include/X11/uid/22:59:55S
.wH .fi
.iE
.PP
These paths are defaults that vendors may change.
For example, a vendor may use different directories for
\*L/usr/lib/X11\*O and \*L/usr/include/X11\*O.
.PP 
The following substitutions are used in these paths:
.VL 0.5i 
.LI "\*L%U\*O"
The UID file string, from the \*Vfile_names_list\*O argument.
.LI "\*L%N\*O"
The class name of the application.
.LI "\*L%L\*O"
The display's language string.
.LI "\*L%l\*O"
The language component of the display's language string.
.LI "\*L%S\*O"
The suffix to the file name.
The entire path is searched first with a suffix of \*L\&.uil\*O, and if
no file is found, it is searched again with a NULL suffix.
.LE 
.nL
.ne 10
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function returns one of these status return constants:
.iX "MrmSUCCESS"
.iX "MrmNOT_FOUND"
.iX "MrmFAILURE"
.VL 2.0i 
.LI "\*LMrmSUCCESS\*O"
The function executed successfully.
.LI "\*LMrmNOT_FOUND\*O"
File not found.
.LI "\*LMrmFAILURE\*O"
The function failed.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LMrmOpenHierarchyPerDisplay(3X)\*O and
\*LMrmCloseHierarchy(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
