.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: nanosleep.3,v $ $Revision: 1.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/11/25 13:54:47 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)nanosleep.3 6.5 1/7/92
.TH nanosleep 3
.SH NAME
\*Lnanosleep\*O \- Suspend a process from execution for the specified timer interval (P1003.4/D11)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
#include \*L<time.h>\*O
.PP
int \*Lnanosleep\*O (
.br
const struct \*Ltimespec\*O \*V*rqtp\*O,
.br
struct \*Ltimespec\*O \*V*rmtp\*O);
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 8
.I *rqtp
A pointer to the \*Ltimespec\*O data structure that defines the time interval
during which the calling process is suspended.
.TP
.I *rmtp
A pointer to the \*Ltimespec\*O data structure that receives the amount of
time remaining in the previously requested
interval, or zero if the full interval has elapsed.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "nanosleep function"
.iX "sleep" "high resolution sleep"
The \*Lnanosleep\*O function suspends a
process until one of the following conditions is met:
.RS 3
.IP \(bu 3
The time interval specified in \*Vrqtp\*O has elapsed.
.IP \(bu 3
A signal is delivered to the calling process and the action is to deliver
a signal to a
signal catching function (or to terminate the process).
.RE
.PP
The suspension time may be longer than requested because the argument
value is rounded up to an integer multiple of the clock resolution or
due to the scheduling of
other activity. Except when it is interrupted by a signal, the suspension
time is not less than the time (as measured by the system clock)
specified by the \*Vrqtp\*O argument.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
When the \*Lnanosleep\*O function returns because
the requested time has elapsed, the call is successful
and a value of 0 is returned.
.PP
If the \*Lnanosleep\*O function returns
because  it was interrupted by a signal,
a value of \-1 is returned and the unslept amount of time
(the time remaining in the interval). If the \*Vrmtp\*O
argument is NULL, the remaining time is not returned.
.PP
On an unsuccessful call,
a value of \-1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is
set to indicate that an error occurred.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The \*Lnanosleep\*O function fails under the following conditions:
.TP 15
[EINTR]
The \*Lnanosleep\*O function was interrupted by a signal.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The \*Vrqtp\*O argument
specified a nanosecond value less than zero
or greater than or equal to 1000 million.
.TP 15
[ENOSYS]
The function \*Lnanosleep\*O is not supported by this implementation.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lsleep\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
