.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: newpad.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/15 20:39:36 $
.\"
.TH newpad 3
.SH NAME
\*Lnewpad\*O \- Creates a new pad
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O

\*LWINDOW \(**newpad(\*Vnlines\*L, \*Vncols\*L)
    int \*Vnlines\*L, \*Vncols\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "newpad subroutine"
The \*Lnewpad\*O routine creates a new \*Lpad\*O data structure.
A pad differs from a window in that it is not restricted by
the screen size, and it is not necessarily associated
with a particular part of the screen.
Pads can be used when large windows are needed.
Only part of the pad will be on the screen at any one time.
.PP
Automatic refreshes of pads, for example, from scrolling
or echoing of input, do not occur.
.PP
You cannot call the \*Lrefresh\*O routine with a pad as
an argument; use the routines \*Lprefresh\*O or
\*Lpnoutrefresh\*O instead.
.PP
Note that these two routines require additional parameters
to specify both the part of the pad to be displayed
and the screen location for the display.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On success the \*Lnewpad\*O function returns a pointer
to the new WINDOW structure created.  On failure
the function returns a null pointer.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpnoutrefresh\*O(3), \*Lprefresh\*O(3), \*Lrefresh\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
