.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: newterm.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/15 23:24:28 $
.\"
.TH newterm 3
.SH NAME
\*Lnewterm\*O \- Opens a new terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <stdio.h>\*O
.nL
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O

\*LSCREEN \(**newterm(\*Vtype\*L, \*Voutfd\*L, \*Vinfd\*L)
    char \(**\*Vtype\*L;
    FILE \(**\*Voutfd\*L, \(**\*Vinfd\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "newterm subroutine"
.iX "initscr subroutine" "newterm subroutine"
Programs using more than one terminal should call the \*Lnewterm\*O
routine for each terminal instead of \*Linitscr\*O.
The routine \*Lnewterm\*O should be called only \*Vonce\*O
for each terminal.
.PP
The \*Lnewterm\*O routine returns a variable of type
SCREEN \(** which should be saved as a reference to that terminal.
There are three arguments.  The first argument, \*Ltype\*O,
is the type of the terminal to be used in place of TERM.
The second argument, \*Loutfd\*O, is a file pointer for
output to the terminal.  The third argument, \*Linfd\*O,
is a file pointer for input from the terminal.
The program must also call the \*Lendwin\*O routine for
each terminal, after each terminal has finished running a
\*Lcurses\*O application.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On success, the \*Lnewterm\*O function returns a pointer to
the new SCREEN structure created.  On failure,
the function returns a null pointer.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lendwin\*O(3), \*Linitscr\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
