.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: nice.3,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/04 19:19:31 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.TH nice 3
.SH NAME
\*Lnice\*O \- Changes the scheduling priority of a process
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O),
.nL
Berkeley Compatibility Library (\*Llibbsd.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lint nice(
.nL
	int \*Vincrement\*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.VL 
.LI "\*Vincrement"
\*OSpecifies a value that is added to the current
process priority.
Negative values can be specified, although values
exceeding either the high or low limit are truncated.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "nice function"
.iX "process" "changing scheduling priority"
.iX "scheduling priority" "setting"
.PP
The
\*Lnice(\|)\*O
function adds an increment to the \*Lnice\*O value of the calling process.
The \*Lnice\*O value is a nonnegative number;  by incrementing the nice
value, a process is given lower CPU priority.
.SH NOTES
.PP 
Process
priorities in are defined
in the range of 0 to 39 in AT&T System V systems, and
in the range -20 to 20 in BSD systems.
\*OFor that reason, two
versions of the
\*Lnice(\|)\*O
function are supported by OSF/1.
The default version, in
\*Llibc.a\*O,
behaves like the AT&T System V version, with
the \*Vincrement
\*Oparameter treated as the modifier of a value in the range
of 0 to 39.
.PP 
If the behavior of the BSD version is desired, compile with the
Berkeley Compatibility Library (\*Llibbsd.a\*O) and the \*Vincrement
\*Oparameter is treated as the modifier of a value in the range -20
to 20.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Trial use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lnice(\|)\*O
function returns the new nice value minus the value of NZERO.
Otherwise,
-1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the
\*Llibc.a\*O
version of
\*Lnice(\|)\*O
fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to the following value:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EPERM]"
The calling process does not have appropriate privilege.
.LE 
.PP 
If the
\*Llibbsd.a\*O
version of
\*Lnice(\|)\*O
fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to the same values as the
\*Lsetpriority(\|)\*O
function.
.PP 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lexec(2),
\*Lgetpriority(2)\*O.
.iX "nice function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
