.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: nl_langinfo.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/24 22:27:05 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.\"
.TH nl_langinfo 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lnl_langinfo\*O \- Language information
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <langinfo.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lchar *nl_langinfo(\*O
.nL
        \*Lnl_item \*Vitem\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vitem\*O"
Specifies constant names and values.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "nl_langinfo function"
.iX "national language" "returning information about"
The \*Lnl_langinfo(\|)\*O function returns a pointer to a string
containing information relevant to the particular
language or cultural area defined in the program's locale.
The structures, constant names, and values of the
\*Vitem\*O parameter are defined in the \*Llanginfo.h\*O
header file.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Trial use.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example returns a pointer
to the abbreviated name of the first
day of the week in the current locale:
.PP
.oS
nl_langinfo(ABDAY_1)
.oE
.PP
This function call
would return a pointer to the string "Dom" if the identified
language was Portuguese, "Sun" if the identified language
was English, and so on.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
In a locale where \*Llanginfo\*O data is not defined, the
\*Lnl_langinfo(\|)\*O function
returns a pointer to the corresponding string in the C locale.
In all locales, the \*Lnl_langinfo(\|)\*O function
returns a pointer to an empty string if the \*Vitem\*O parameter
contains an invalid setting.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lsetlocale\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
