.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ntohs.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/27 14:49:58 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH ntohs 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lntohs\*O \- Converts an unsigned short (16-bit) integer from Internet network-byte order to host-byte order
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lunsigned short ntohs\*O (\*L
.nL
	\*Lunsigned short \*Vnetshort\*L) ;
.nL
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*Vnetshort"
\*OSpecifies a 16-bit integer in host-byte order.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ntohs function"
.iX "host-byte order" "converting short integer"
.iX "network-byte order" "converting short integer"
.iX "short integer" "converting to host-byte order"
The \*Lntohs(\|)\*O (network-to-host short) function
converts an unsigned short (16-bit) integer from Internet
network-byte order to host-byte order.
.PP
\*OThe Internet network requires address and port reference data in
network-byte order (most significant byte leftmost, least significant
byte rightmost).  You can use the \*Lntohs(\|)\*O function to convert Internet
network address and port data to host-byte ordered integers.
.\" Commented out per Mary Walker -- QAR 13674
.\" .PP
.\" The \*Lntohs(\|)\*O function is defined as a \*Vlittle-endian\*O function
.\" in the \*Lnetinet/in.h\*O header file for machine environments where
.\" network-byte order and host-byte order are not identical.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
\*OThe \*Lntohs(\|)\*O function
returns a 16-bit short integer in host-byte order.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lntohl\*O(3),
\*Lhtonl\*O(3),
\*Lhtons\*O(3)
.iX "ntohs function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
