.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Object.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.3.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 18:47:14 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH Object 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LObject\*O \- The Object widget class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.wH .fP
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Object"
.iX "widget class" "Object"
Object is never instantiated.
Its sole purpose is as a supporting superclass for other
widget classes.
.SS "Classes"
The class pointer is \*LobjectClass\*O.
.PP 
The class name is \*LObject\*O.
.SS "New Resources"
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \*LXmN\*O or
\*LXmC\*O prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \*LXm\*O prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (C),
set by using \*LXtSetValues\*O (S),
retrieved by using \*LXtGetValues\*O (G), or is not applicable (N/A).
.PP
.\" NROFF HACK START
.TS
center ;
CB ss
lB lB lB
lB lB lB
l l l.
Object Resource Set
_
Name	Default	Access
\ \ \ \ \ \ Class	\ \ \ \ \ \ Type
_
_
XmNdestroyCallback	NULL	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCallback	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCallbackList
_
.TE
.\" NROFF HACK END
.VL  
.LI "\*LXmNdestroyCallback\*O"
Specifies a list of callbacks that is called when the gadget is destroyed.
.LE
.SS "Translations"
There are no translation for Object.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
