.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.TH openpty 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lopenpty\*O, \*Lforkpty\*O - Open and fork pseudoterminals
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <termios.h>
.nL
             <ioctl.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint openpty(
.nL
	int *\*Vmaster\*L,
.nL
	int *\*Vslave\*L,
.nL
	char *\*Vname\*L,
.nL
	struct termios *\*Vtermp\*L,
.nL
	struct winsize *\*Vwinp,\*L);
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" In following line, replaced int with pid_t
.sp 0.4v
\*Lpid_t  forkpty(
.\" End Digital-specific information
.nL
	int *\*Vmaster\*L,
.nL
	char *\*Vname\*L,
.nL
	struct termios *\*Vtermp\*L,
.nL
	struct winsize *\*Vwinp,\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vmaster\*O"
Points to the returned file descriptor for the master pty.
.LI "\*Vslave\*O"
Points to the returned file descriptor for the slave pty.
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Points to the pathname of the slave pseudoterminal (pty).
This parameter is optional.
.LI "\*Vtermp\*O"
Specifies the
\*Ltermios\*O
structure containing the terminal attributes for the opened slave pty.
This parameter is optional.
.LI "\*Vwinp\*O"
Specifies the \*Lwinsize\*O structure containing the window attributes
for the opened slave pty.  This parameter is optional.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "openpty function"
.iX "forkpty function"
.iX "login" "creation of pty device for"
.iX "master pty" "opening of"
.iX "master pty" "forking of"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Changed description per Ron Hegli
The \*Lopenpty(\|)\*O function opens the pty master/slave pair
and sets the terminal attributes of the slave pseudoterminal
according to the specifications in
the \*Vtermp\*O and \*Vwinp\*O parameters.
The \*Lforkpty(\|)\*O function creates a child process
and establishes the slave pty as the child process'
controlling terminal.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP
.ce 1
\*LNote\*O
.sp 6p
.RS 5
If a signal handler for SIGCHLD exists and the
\*Lopenpty(\|)\*O or \*Lforkpty(\|)\*O function is invoked without superuser
privileges, the signal handler must be able to dismiss an unexpected
SIGCHLD signal.
.RE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion,
the \*Lopenpty(\|)\*O function returns a value of 0 (zero).  Otherwise,
it returns a value of -1. The \*Lforkpty(\|)\*O function returns
a value of 0 (zero) to the child process and returns the process ID of the
child process to the parent process on success.
On error, the
\*Lforkpty(\|)\*O function returns a value of -1 to the parent process
and does not create a child process.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occurs,
the \*Lopenpty(\|)\*O function sets \*Lerrno\*O to the
corresponding value:
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" These are all from Ron Hegli
.VL
.LI "[ENOENT]"
The slave pty special files have been exhausted.
.LI "[ENXIO]"
There are no more ptys that can be opened.  The configured
number of ptys has been reached.
.LI "[EMFILE]"
The system limit for open file descriptors per process has
already reached OPEN_MAX.  The system limit for open file
descriptors has already been reached.
.LI "[ENFILE]"
The system file table is full.
.LI "[ENOMEM]"
The system was unable to allocate kernel memory for more
file descriptors/processes.
.LI "[EAGAIN]"
The system-imposed limit on the total number of processes
executing for a single user has been exceeded.  This limit
can be exceeded by a process with superuser privilege.
.LE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lfork\*O(2)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
