.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: OverrideShell.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 18:47:23 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH OverrideShell 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LOverrideShell\*O \- The OverrideShell widget class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
\&#include <X11/Shell.h>
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "OverrideShell"
.iX "widget class" "OverrideShell"
OverrideShell is used for shell windows that completely bypass
the window manager, for example, PopupMenu shells.
.SS "Classes"
OverrideShell inherits behavior and resources from \*LCore\*O,
\*LComposite\*O, and \*LShell\*O.
.PP 
The class pointer is \*LoverrideShellWidgetClass\*O.
.PP 
The class name is \*LOverrideShell\*O.
.SS "New Resources"
OverrideShell defines no new resources, but overrides
the \*LXmNoverrideRedirect\*O and \*LXmNsaveUnder\*O resources in the
\*LShell\*O class.
.SS "Inherited Resources"
OverrideShell inherits behavior and resources from the following
superclasses.  For a complete description of each resource, refer to the
man page for that superclass.
.PP 
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \*LXmN\*O or
\*LXmC\*O prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \*LXm\*O prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (C),
set by using \*LXtSetValues\*O (S),
retrieved by using \*LXtGetValues\*O (G), or is not applicable (N/A).
.PP
.\" NROFF HACK START
.TS
center ;
CB ss
lB lB lB
lB lB lB
l l l.
Shell Resource Set
_
Name	Default	Access
\ \ \ \ \ \ Class	\ \ \ \ \ \ Type
_
_
XmNallowShellResize	False	CG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCAllowShellResize	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNcreatePopupChildProc	NULL	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCreatePopupChildProc	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCreatePopupChildProc
_
XmNgeometry	NULL	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCGeometry	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ String
_
XmNoverrideRedirect	True	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCOverrideRedirect	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNpopdownCallback	NULL	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCallback	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCallbackList
_
XmNpopupCallback	NULL	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCallback	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCallbackList
_
XmNsaveUnder	True	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCSaveUnder	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNvisual	CopyFromParent	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCVisual	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Visual *
_
.TE
.\" NROFF HACK END
.PP
.\" NROFF HACK START
.TS
center ;
CB ss
lB lB lB
lB lB lB
l l l.
Composite Resource Set
_
Name	Default	Access
\ \ \ \ \ \ Class	\ \ \ \ \ \ Type
_
_
XmNchildren	NULL	G
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCReadOnly	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ WidgetList
_
XmNinsertPosition	NULL	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCInsertPosition	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtOrderProc
_
XmNnumChildren	0	G
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCReadOnly	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Cardinal
_
.TE
.\" NROFF HACK END
.PP
.wH .in 0 
.\" NROFF HACK START
.TS
center ;
CB ss
lB lB lB
lB lB lB
l l l.
Core Resource Set
_
Name	Default	Access
\ \ \ \ \ \ Class	\ \ \ \ \ \ Type
_
_
XmNaccelerators	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCAccelerators	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtAccelerators
_
XmNancestorSensitive	dynamic	G
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCSensitive	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNbackground	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBackground	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNbackgroundPixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCPixmap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixmap
_
XmNborderColor	XtDefaultForeground	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBorderColor	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNborderPixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCPixmap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixmap
_
XmNborderWidth	1	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBorderWidth	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNcolormap	dynamic	CG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCColormap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Colormap
_
XmNdepth	dynamic	CG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCDepth	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ int
_
XmNdestroyCallback	NULL	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCallback	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCallbackList
_
XmNheight	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHeight	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNinitialResourcesPersistent	True	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCInitialResourcesPersistent	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNmappedWhenManaged	True	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCMappedWhenManaged	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNscreen	dynamic	CG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCScreen	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Screen *
_
.wH .tH
XmNsensitive	True	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCSensitive	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNtranslations	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCTranslations	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtTranslations
_
XmNwidth	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCWidth	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNx	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCPosition	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Position
_
XmNy	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCPosition	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Position
_
.TE
.\" NROFF HACK END
.wH .in  
.SS "Translations"
There are no translations for OverrideShell.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LComposite(3X)\*O, \*LCore(3X)\*O, and \*LShell(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
