.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: passlen.3,v $ $Revision: 3.6.4.8 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:23:09 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 SecureWare, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved
.\" @(#)passlen.3	1.2 17:47:35 3/28/90 SecureWare
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
.TH passlen 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lpasslen\*O \- Determines minimum password length (Enhanced Security)
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Security Library (\*Llibsecurity.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.nL
#include <sys/security.h>
.nL
#include <prot.h>
.sp 0.4v
int passlen(
.nL
	time_t \*Vlife_dur\*L,
.nL
	time_t \*Vlogin_delay\*L,
.nL
	int \*Valphabet_size\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vlife_dur\*O"
Specifies the password lifetime duration for an account (in seconds).
.LI "\*Vlogin_delay\*O"
Specifies the amount of time (in seconds) between login attempts.
.LI "\*Valphabet_size\*O"
Specifies the number of distinct characters that can be used in a
password.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "determining minimum password length"
.iX "passwords" "determining the minimum length of"
.iX "passlen function"
The
\*Lpasslen(\|)\*O
function takes the password lifetime duration
\*Vlife_dur\*O
for an account and the
\*Vlogin_delay\*O
between login attempts, both values in seconds,
and the
\*Valphabet_size\*O
of distinct characters, and returns
the minimum password length according to the algorithm in the
\*VDoD Password Management Guideline\*O (the \*VGreen Book\*O).
The parameter that specifies the probability of guessing a
password is fixed to the value of 1 chance in a million.
.\"comment the formula out for sanity:  baker
.\".P
.\"The formula is:
.\".P
.\".if n \{\
.\"The following is the EQN representation of this formula.
.\"Because of display problems, the ASCII graphical
.\"representation of this formula is unavailable. \}
.\".EQ
.\"min_pass_len~=~
.\"{roman ceil} left [ {{ln ~ {{login_delay~times~life_dur} over prob_guess}}
.\"over {ln~alphabet_size}} right ]
.\".EN
.SH NOTES
.PP
If the \*Vlife_dur\*O or \*Vprob_guess\*O parameters change in the
protected password
database for this account (or for the system default if those values
are used in an account), it is a good idea to invalidate the password
in case the new parameters require a longer minimum password length.
.P
Programs using this routine must be compiled with
\%\*L-lsecurity\*O.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lrandomword(3),
\*Lexp(3),
\*Lfloor(3)\*O.
.PP
Commands:
\*Lpasswd(1)\*O.
.iX "passlen function"
.\" #endif /* SEC_BASE */
.EQ
delim off
.EN
