.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pause.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/18 13:31:12 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH pause 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpause\*O \- Suspends a process until a signal is received
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lint pause( void );
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "pause function"
.iX "process" "suspending"
.iX "suspending a process"
The
\*Lpause(\|)\*O
function suspends the calling process until
it receives a signal whose action is either to execute a
signal-catching function or terminate the process.
The signal must not be one that is not acknowledged by
the calling process.
The
\*Lpause(\|)\*O
function does
not affect the action taken when a signal is received.
.PP 
The
\*Lpause(\|)\*O
function, which suspends the calling process until the request is
completed, is redefined so that only the calling thread is
suspended.
.SH NOTES
.PP 
The
\*Lpause(\|)\*O
function is not supported for multi-threaded applications.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
When the received signal causes the calling process to end, the
\*Lpause(\|)\*O
function does not return.
.PP
When the signal is caught by the calling process and control is
returned from the signal-catching function, the calling process resumes
execution from the point of suspension, and
the
\*Lpause(\|)\*O
function returns a value of -1 and sets \*Lerrno\*O
to the value [EINTR].
.SH ERRORS
If the
\*Lpause(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to the following value:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINTR]"
The signal is caught by the calling process and control is
returned from the signal-catching function.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lalarm\*O(3),
\*Lkill\*O(2),
\*Lsigaction\*O(2),
\*Lsigvec\*O(2),
\*Lwait\*O(2)
.iX "pause function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
