.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pclose.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/18 13:31:27 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH pclose 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpclose\*O \-  Closes a pipe to a process
.SH LIBRARY
.PP 
Standard I/O Package (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <stdio.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint pclose (
.nL
	FILE *\*Vstream \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vstream\*O"
Points to a
FILE
structure for an open pipe returned by a previous call
to the
\*Lpopen(\|)\*O
function.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "pclose function"
.iX "closing a pipe"
.iX "pipe"
.iX "process" "closing a pipe to"
.PP 
The \*Lpclose(\|)\*O function closes a pipe between the calling
program and a shell command to be executed. Use the \*Lpclose(\|)\*O
function to close any stream you have opened with the \*Lpopen(\|)\*O
function. The \*Lpclose(\|)\*O function waits for the associated
process to end, and then returns the exit status of the command.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Trial use
.LE
.SH CAUTION
If the original processes and the process
started with the \*Lpopen(\|)\*O function concurrently read or write
a common file, neither should use buffered I/O. If they do, the results
are unpredictable.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion,
the \*Lpclose(\|)\*O function
returns the exit status of the command.
If the \*Vstream\*O
parameter is not associated with a \*Lpopen(\|)\*O command, a value of -1
is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the
\*Lpclose(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to the following value:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[ECHILD]"
The status of the child process could not be obtained.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lfclose\*O(3),
\*Lpopen\*O(3),
\*Lwait\*O(2)
.iX "pclose function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
