.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: perror.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/18 13:31:43 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH perror 3
.SH NAME
\*Lperror\*O \-  Writes a message explaining a function error
.SH LIBRARY
.PP 
Standard C Library \*L(libc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <errno.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lvoid perror (
.nL
	char *\*Vstring \*L);
.sp .4v
extern char *sys_errlist[ ];
.nL
extern int sys_nerr;\*L
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vstring\*O"
A parameter string that contains the name of the
program that caused the error. The ensuing printed message contains
this string, a colon, and an explanation of the error.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "perror function"
.iX "function errors"
.iX "messages" "for function errors"
.PP 
The \*Lperror(\|)\*O function writes a message on the standard
error output that describes the last error encountered by a function or library function. The error message includes the \*Vstring \*Oparameter
string followed by a : (colon), a blank, the message, and a
newline character. The \*Vstring\*O parameter string should include
the name of the program that caused the error. The error number is
taken from \*Lerrno\*O, which is set when an
error occurs, but is not cleared when a successful call is made.
.PP 
Use \*Lerrno\*O as an index into this table
to get the message string without the newline character. The largest
message number provided in the table is \*Lsys_nerr\*O. Be sure
to check \*Lsys_nerr\*O because new error codes can be added to
the system before they are added to the table.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lprintf\*O(3)
.iX "perror function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
