.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: popen.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/18 13:31:58 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH popen 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpopen\*O \-  Initiates a pipe to a process
.SH LIBRARY
.PP 
Standard I/O Package (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <stdio.h>
.sp .4v
\*LFILE *popen (
.nL
	const char *\*Vcommand\*L,
.nL
	const char *\*Vtype \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vcommand\*O"
Points to a null-terminated string containing
a shell command line.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vtype\*O" 
Points to a null-terminated string containing an
I/O mode. If the \*Vtype\*O parameter is the value \*Lr\*O,
the calling program
can read from the standard output of the command by reading from
the returned file stream. If the \*Vtype\*O parameter is the value \*Lw\*O,
the calling program can write to the standard input of the command by writing
to the returned file stream.
.PP
Because open files are shared, a type \*Lr\*O command can be
used as an input filter and a type \*Lw\*O command as an output
filter.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "popen function"
.iX "process" "opening a pipe to"
.iX "pipe"
.iX "opening a pipe to a process"
.PP 
The \*Lpopen(\|)\*O function creates a pipe between the calling
program and a shell command to be executed.
It returns a pointer to a \*LFILE\*O
structure for the stream.
.SH NOTES
Programs using the
\*Lpopen(\|)\*O
function to invoke an output filter should beware of possible
deadlock caused by output data remaining in the program's buffer.
This can be avoided by either using the
\*Lsetbuf(\|)\*O
function to ensure that the output stream is unbuffered, or by using
the
\*Lfflush(\|)\*O
function to ensure that all buffered data is flushed before calling
the
\*Lpclose(\|)\*O
function.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Trial use
.LE
.SH CAUTION
If the original processes and the process
started with the \*Lpopen(\|)\*O function concurrently read or write
a common file, neither should use buffered I/O. If they do, the results
are unpredictable.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lpopen(\|)\*O
function returns a pointer to the
FILE
structure for the opened stream.  In case of error because files or
processes could not be created, the
\*Lpopen(\|)\*O
function returns a null pointer.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lexec\*O(2),
\*Lfork\*O(2),
\*Lfclose\*O(3),
\*Lfopen\*O(3),
\*Lpclose\*O(3),
\*Lpipe\*O(2),
\*Lsetbuf\*O(3)
.iX "popen function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
