.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: prefresh.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/15 21:41:48 $
.\"
.TH prefresh 3
.SH NAME
\*Lprefresh\*O, \*Lpnoutrefresh\*O \- Refreshs the specified pad
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O

\*Lint prefresh(\*Vpad\*L, \*Vpminrow\*L, \*Vpmincol\*L, \*Vsminrow\*L, \*Vsmincol\*L, \*Vsmaxrow\*L, \*Vsmaxcol\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vpad\*L;
    int \*Vpminrow\*L, \*Vpmincol\*L, \*Vsminrow\*L, \*Vsmincol\*L, \*Vsmaxrow\*L, \*Vsmaxcol\*L;\*O

\*Lint pnoutrefresh(\*Vpad\*L, \*Vpminrow\*L, \*Vpmincol\*L, \*Vsminrow\*L, \*Vsmincol\*L, \*Vsmaxrow\*L, \*Vsmaxcol\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vpad\*L;
    int \*Vpminrow\*L, \*Vpmincol\*L, \*Vsminrow\*L, \*Vsmincol\*L, \*Vsmaxrow\*L, \*Vsmaxcol\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "prefresh subroutine"
.iX "pnoutrefresh subroutine"
The \*Lprefresh\*O routine copies the specified pad to
the physical terminal screen.  It takes account of what is already
displayed on the screen to optimize cursor movement.
.PP
The \*Lpnoutrefresh\*O routine copies the named pad to the
virtual screen.  It then compares the virtual screen with
the physical screen and performs the actual update.
.PP
These routines are analogous to the routines \*Lwrefresh\*O
and \*Lwnoutrefresh\*O except that pads, instead of windows,
are involved.  Additional parameters are also needed to
indicate which part of the pad and screen is involved.
The upper left corner of the part of the pad to be displayed
is specified by \*Lpminrow\*O and \*Lpmincol\*O.
The co-ordinates \*Lsminrow\*O, \*Lsmincol\*O, \*Lsmaxrow\*O,
and \*Lsmaxcol\*O specify the edges of the screen rectangle
that will contain the selected part of the pad.
.PP
The lower right corner of the pad rectangle to be displayed is
calculated from the screen co-ordinates.  This ensures that
the screen rectangle and the pad rectangle are the same size.
.PP
Both rectangles must be contained entirely within their
respective structures.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lprefresh\*O and \*Lpnoutrefresh\*O functions return
OK on success and ERR on error.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lwnoutrefresh\*O(3), \*Lwrefresh\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
