.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: printw.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/16 00:33:42 $
.\"
.TH printw 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lprintw\*O, \*Lwprintw\*O, \*Lmvprintw\*O, \*Lmvwprintw\*O, \*Lvwprintw\*O \- Formatted write operation to a curses window
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
The \*Lcurses\*O library (\*Llibcurses.so\*O, \*Llibcurses.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint printw( char \(**\*Vfmt \*O[\*L, \*Varg\*O] ... \*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint wprintw(
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L,
    char \(**\*Vfmt \*O[\*L, \*Varg\*O] ... \*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint mvprintw(
    int \*Vy\*L,
    int \*Vx\*L,
    char \(**\*Vfmt \*O[\*L, \*Varg\*O] ... \*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint mvwprintw(
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L,
    int \*Vy\*L,
    int \*Vx\*L,
    char \(**\*Vfmt \*O[\*L, \*Varg\*O] ... \*L);\*O
.PP
\*L#include <varargs.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint vwprintw(
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L,
    char \(**\*Vfmt\*L,
    va_list \*Vvarglist \*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vwin\*O"
Specifies a \*Lcurses\*O window. If not specified, the
window is the default window \*Lstdscr\*O.
.LI "\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O"
Specifies the line (\*Vy\*O) and column (\*Vx\*O)
coordinates of the target position on the window.
If coordinates are not specified, the target
position is the current position of the logical cursor.
.LI "\*Vfmt\*O"
Specifies a string combining literal characters
with conversion specifications.  Refer to the \*Lprintf\*O(3)
reference page for details about the format specification.
.LI "\*Varg\*O"
Specifies an argument to be converted according to \*Vfmt\*O.
.LI "\*Vvarglist\*O"
Specifies a list of arguments to be converted
according to \*Vfmt\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "printw subroutine"
.iX "wprintw subroutine"
.iX "mvprintw subroutine"
.iX "mvwprintw subroutine"
.iX "vwprintw subroutine"
.iX "printf subroutine" "printw subroutine"
The \*Lprintw\*O routine adds a string to the default
window starting at the current cursor position.
This routine causes a string formatted by
\*Lprintf(\|)\*O to be output by \*Laddstr(\|)\*O.
.PP
The \*Lwprintw\*O routine adds a string to the
window \*Vwin\*O starting at the current cursor position.
This routine causes a string formatted by
\*Lprintf(\|)\*O to be output by \*Lwaddstr(\|)\*O.
.PP
The \*Lmvprintw\*O routine adds a string to the default
window starting at cursor position (\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O).
This routine causes a string formatted by
\*Lprintf(\|)\*O to be output by \*Laddstr(\|)\*O.
.PP
The \*Lmvwprintw\*O routine adds a string to the
window \*Vwin\*O starting at cursor position (\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O).
This routine causes a string formatted by
\*Lprintf(\|)\*O to be output by \*Lwaddstr(\|)\*O.
.PP
All of the preceding routines are analogous to \*Lprintf(\|)\*O.
To avoid leaving unwanted characters on the screen from earlier calls,
use the field width options of \*Lprintf(\|)\*O.
.PP
The \*Lvwprintw\*O routine adds a string to the
window \*Vwin\*O starting at the current cursor position.
This routine causes a string formatted by
\*Lvprintf(\|)\*O to be output by \*Lwprintw(\|)\*O using a
variable argument list.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lprintw\*O, \*Lmvprintw\*O, \*Lmvwprintw\*O, \*Lwprintw\*O, and
\*Lvwprintw\*O routines return \*LOK\*O on success and \*LERR\*O on error.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Laddstr\*O(3), \*Lprintf\*O(3), \*Lwaddstr\*O(3),
\*Lvprintf\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
