.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_attr_getstacksize.3,v $ $Revision: 3.3.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/13 15:22:34 $
.\" 
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH "<routine_section>"
.TH pthread_attr_getstacksize 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_attr_getstacksize\*O \- Obtains the value of the stacksize attribute in the specified thread attributes object.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.iX "Attribute" "stacksize"
.iX "Stacksize attribute" "obtaining"
.iX "Creating a thread" "stacksize attribute"
.iX "Thread creation" "stacksize attribute"
.iX "Stack" "obtaining minimum size of"
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "long pthread_attr_getstacksize"
.dS "pthread_attr_t"
\*Vattr\*O
.dE
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vattr\*O"
Thread attributes object whose stacksize attribute is obtained.
.LE
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This routine obtains the minimum size (in bytes) of the stack for a thread
created using the thread attributes object specified by the \*Vattr\*O
parameter.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On successful completion, this routine returns the stacksize
attribute value.
.PP
If an error condition occurs, this routine returns \-1 and sets \*Eerrno\*O
to the corresponding error value. Possible return values are as
follows:
.sp
.TS
center, tab(@);
l l lw(2.5i).
\*LReturn@Error@Description\*O
_
Stacksize attribute@@Successful completion.
\-1@[\*LEINVAL\*O]@T{
The value specified by \*Vattr\*O is invalid.  The value specified by
\*Vattr\*O does not refer to an existing thread attributes object.
T}
.TE
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
long pthread_attr_getstacksize
	(pthread_attr_t attr);
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_attr_create\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_attr_setstacksize\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_create\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
