.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_detach.3,v $ $Revision: 3.3.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/13 21:33:35 $
.\"
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH "<routine_section>"
.TH pthread_detach 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_detach\*O \- Marks a thread object for deletion.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.iX "Thread" "deleting"
.iX "Deleting a thread"
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "int pthread_detach"
.dS "pthread_t"
\*V*thread\*L
.dE
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vthread\*O"
Thread object marked for deletion.
.LE
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This routine indicates that storage for the specified thread is reclaimed when the thread terminates. This includes storage for the \*Vthread\*O parameter's return value. If \*Vthread\*O has not terminated when this routine is called, this routine does not cause it to terminate.
.PP
Call this routine when a thread object is no longer referenced.
Additionally, call this routine for every thread that is created to ensure
that storage for thread objects does not accumulate.
.PP
You cannot join with a thread after the thread has been detached.
.PP
The results of this routine are unpredictable if the value of
\*Vthread\*O refers to a thread object that does not exist.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If an error condition occurs, this routine returns \-1 and sets
\*Eerrno\*O to the corresponding error value. Possible return values
are as follows:
.sp
.TS
center, tab(@);
l l l.
\*LReturn@Error@Description\*O
_
\00@@Successful completion.
\&\-1@[\*LEINVAL\*O]@The value specified by \*Vthread\*O is invalid.
.TE
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
int pthread_detach (pthread_t *thread);
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_cancel\*O(3), \*Lpthread_create\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_exit\*O(3), \*Lpthread_join\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
