.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_join.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 11:09:46 $
.\"
...\" Copyright (c) 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
...\" ***********************************************************************
...\" * COPYRIGHT (c) 1990 BY *
...\" * DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION, Maynard, Mass.  *
...\" *  *
...\" * This document is furnished under a license and may be
...\" * used and copied
...\" * only in accordance with the terms of such license and with the *
...\" * inclusion of the above copyright notice. This document or any other *
...\" * copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made available to any *
...\" * other person. No title to or ownership of the document is hereby *
...\" * transferred.  *
...\" *  *
...\" * The information in this document is subject to change without notice *
...\" * and should not be construed as a commitment by DIGITAL Equipment *
...\" * Corporation.  *
...\" ***********************************************************************
.wH "<routine_section>"(P1003.4a routines\3THR)
.wH "<set_template_routine>"(ROUTINE\DOUBLERUNNINGHEADS)
.TH pthread_join 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_join\*O \- Causes the calling thread to wait for the termination of a specified thread.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "int pthread_join"
.dS "pthread_t"
\*Vthread\*L
.dE
.dS "pthread_addr_t"
\*V*status\*O
.dE
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vthread\*O"
Thread whose termination is awaited by the caller of this routine.
.LI "\*Vstatus\*O"
Status value of the terminating thread when that thread calls
pthread_exit.
.LE
.wH "<endargdeflist>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Thread" "waiting for the termination of"
.iX "Termination" "waiting for"
.PP
This routine causes the calling thread to wait for the termination of
a specified thread. A call to this routine returns after the
specified thread has terminated.
.PP
Any number of threads can call this routine. All threads are awakened
when the specified thread terminates.
.PP
If the current thread calls this routine, a deadlock results.
.PP
The results of this routine are unpredictable if the value for
\*Vthread\*O refers to a thread object that no longer exists.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If an error condition occurs, this routine returns \-1 and sets
\*Eerrno\*O to the corresponding error value.
Possible return values are as follows:
.sp
.TS
center, tab(@);
l l l.
\*LReturn@Error@Description\*O
_
\00@@Successful completion.
\&\-1@[\*LEINVAL\*O]@The value specified by \*Vthread\*O is invalid.
\&\-1@[\*LESRCH\*O]@T{
The value specified by \*Vthread\*O does not refer to a currently existing thread.
T}
\&\-1@[\*LEDEADLK\*O]@A deadlock is detected.
.TE
.wH "<endreturn>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
int pthread_join (pthread_t thread, pthread_addr_t *status);
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endexample>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_create\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_detach\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_exit\*O(3)
.wH "<endroutine_section>"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
