.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_testcancel.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 11:13:29 $
.\"
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH                                                                    *
.wH COPYRIGHT (c) 1990 BY DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION,               *
.wH Maynard, Mass.                                                     *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH This document is furnished under a license and may be used and     *
.wH copied only in accordance with the terms of such license and with  *
.wH the inclusion of the above copyright notice. This document or any  *
.wH other copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made         *
.wH available to any other person. No title to or ownership of the     *
.wH document is hereby transferred.                                    *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH The information in this document is subject to change without      *
.wH notice and should not be construed as a commitment by DIGITAL      *
.wH Equipment Corporation.                                             *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH "<routine_section>"
.TH pthread_testcancel 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_testcancel\*O \- Requests delivery of a pending cancel to the current thread.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "void pthread_testcancel
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
None.
.PP
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Cancel" "requesting delivery of"
.iX "Delivery of cancel" "requesting"
.PP
This routine requests delivery of a pending cancel to the current thread.
The cancel is delivered only if a cancel is pending for the current thread
and general cancel delivery is not currently disabled. (A thread disables
delivery of cancels to itself by calling \*Lpthread_setcancel\*O.)
.PP
This routine, when called within very long loops, ensures that a pending
cancel is noticed within a reasonable amount of time.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
None.
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
void pthread_testcancel ();
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_cancel\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_setasynccancel\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_setcancel\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
