.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_condattr_delete.3,v $ $Revision: 3.3.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 11:07:58 $
.\"
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH                                                                    *
.wH COPYRIGHT (c) 1990 BY DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION,               *
.wH Maynard, Mass.                                                     *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH This document is furnished under a license and may be used and     *
.wH copied only in accordance with the terms of such license and with  *
.wH the inclusion of the above copyright notice. This document or any  *
.wH other copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made         *
.wH available to any other person. No title to or ownership of the     *
.wH document is hereby transferred.                                    *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH The information in this document is subject to change without      *
.wH notice and should not be construed as a commitment by DIGITAL      *
.wH Equipment Corporation.                                             *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH "<routine_section>"
.TH pthread_condattr_delete 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_condattr_delete\*O \- Deletes a condition variable attributes object.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "int pthread_condattr_delete"
.dS "pthread_condattr_t"
\*V*attr\*O
.dE
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 10m
.LI "\*Vattr\*O"
Condition variable attributes object deleted.
.LE
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Condition variable attributes object" "deleting"
.iX "Deleting" "condition variable attributes object"
.PP
This routine deletes a condition variable attributes object. Call this
routine when a condition variable attributes object created by
\*Lpthread_condattr_create\*O will no longer be referenced.
.PP
This routine gives permission to reclaim storage for the condition variable
attributes object. Condition variables that are created using this
attributes object are not affected by the deletion of the condition variable
attributes object.
.PP
The results of calling this routine are unpredictable if the handle
specified by the \*Vattr\*O parameter refers to an attributes object
that does not exist.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Possible return values are as follows:
.sp
.TS
center, tab(@);
l l l.
\*LReturn@Error@Description\*O
_
\00@@Successful completion.
.TE
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
int pthread_condattr_delete (pthread_condattr_t *attr);
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_condattr_create\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
