.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_setspecific.3,v $ $Revision: 3.3.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 11:13:18 $
.\"
...\" Copyright (c) 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\" **************************************************************************
.\" * COPYRIGHT (c) 1990 BY *
.\" * DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION, Maynard, Mass.  *
.\" *  *
.\" * This document is furnished under a license and may be
.\" * used and copied
.\" * only in accordance with the terms of such license and with the *
.\" * inclusion of the above copyright notice. This document or any other *
.\" * copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made available to any *
.\" * other person. No title to or ownership of the document is hereby *
.\" * transferred.  *
.\" *  *
.\" * The information in this document is subject to change without notice *
.\" * and should not be construed as a commitment by DIGITAL Equipment *
.\" * Corporation.  *
.\" **************************************************************************
.wH "<routine_section>"(P1003.4a routines\3THR)
.wH "<set_template_routine>"(ROUTINE\DOUBLERUNNINGHEADS)
.TH pthread_setspecific 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_setspecific\*O \- Sets the per-thread context associated with the specified key for the current thread.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>\*O
.fS "int pthread_setspecific"
.dS "pthread_key_t \*Vkey\*O"
.dE
.dS "pthread_addr_t \*Vvalue\*O"
.dE
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vkey\*O"
Context key value that uniquely identifies the context value specified
in \*Vvalue\*O. This key value must have been obtained from
\*Lpthread_keycreate\*O, or it must be a key value predefined by
the implementation (if predefined key values are provided.)
.LI "\*Vvalue\*O"
Address containing data to be associated with the specified key for
the current thread; this is the per-thread context.
.LE
.wH "<endargdeflist>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Per-thread context" "setting"
.iX "Context" "setting"
.iX "Key value" "setting per-thread context for"
.PP
This routine sets the per-thread context associated with the specified
key for the current thread. If a context has already been defined for
the key in this thread (the current value is not null), the context
destructor routine is called to destroy the current value
(discussed in \*Lpthread_keycreate\*O) and the new value is
substituted for it.
.PP
Different threads can bind different values to the same key. These
values are typically pointers to blocks of dynamically allocated memory
that have been reserved for use by the calling thread.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If an error condition occurs, this routine returns \-1 and sets
\*Eerrno\*O to the corresponding error value.
Possible return values are as follows:
.sp
.TS
center, tab(@);
l l l.
\*LReturn@Error@Description\*O
_
\00@@Successful completion.
\-1@[\*LEINVAL\*O]@The key value is invalid.
.TE
.wH "<endreturn>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
int pthread_setspecific (pthread_key_t key,
 pthread_addr_t value);
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endexample>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_getspecific\*O(3), \*Lpthread_keycreate\*O(3)
.wH "<endroutine_section>"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
