.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_cond_destroy.3,v $ $Revision: 3.3.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 11:06:44 $
.\"
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH                                                                    *
.wH COPYRIGHT (c) 1990 BY DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION,               *
.wH Maynard, Mass.                                                     *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH This document is furnished under a license and may be used and     *
.wH copied only in accordance with the terms of such license and with  *
.wH the inclusion of the above copyright notice. This document or any  *
.wH other copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made         *
.wH available to any other person. No title to or ownership of the     *
.wH document is hereby transferred.                                    *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH The information in this document is subject to change without      *
.wH notice and should not be construed as a commitment by DIGITAL      *
.wH Equipment Corporation.                                             *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH "<routine_section>"
.wH "<endosf_overview>"
.TH pthread_cond_destroy 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_cond_destroy\*O \- Deletes a condition variable.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "int pthread_cond_destroy"
.dS "pthread_cond_t"
\*V*cond\*O
.dE
.fE
.sE
.PP
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vcond\*O"
Condition variable deleted.
.LE
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Deleting a condition variable"
.iX "Condition variable" "deleting"
.PP
This routine deletes a condition variable. Call this routine when a
condition variable will no longer be referenced. The effect of calling this
routine is to give permission to reclaim storage for the condition variable.
.PP
The results of this routine are unpredictable if the condition variable
specified in \*Vcond\*O does not exist.
.PP
The results of this routine are also unpredictable if there are threads
waiting for the specified condition variable to be signaled or broadcast
when it is deleted.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If an error condition occurs, this routine returns \-1 and sets
\*Eerrno\*O to the corresponding error value. Possible return values
are as follows:
.sp
.TS
center, tab(@);
l l l.
\*LReturn@Error@Description\*O
_
\00@@Successful completion.
\&\-1@[\*LEINVAL\*O]@The value specified by \*Vcond\*O is invalid.
\&\-1@[\*LEBUSY\*O]@T{
A thread is currently executing a \*Lpthread_cond_wait\*O or \*Lpthread_cond_timedwait\*O on the condition variable specified in \*Vcond\*O.
T}
.TE
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
int pthread_cond_destroy (pthread_cond_t *cond);
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_cond_broadcast\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_cond_init\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_cond_signal\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_cond_timedwait\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_cond_wait\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
