.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_attr_getinheritsched.3,v $ $Revision: 3.3.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 11:04:21 $
.\"
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH                                                                    *
.wH COPYRIGHT (c) 1990 BY DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION,               *
.wH Maynard, Mass.                                                     *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH This document is furnished under a license and may be used and     *
.wH copied only in accordance with the terms of such license and with  *
.wH the inclusion of the above copyright notice. This document or any  *
.wH other copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made         *
.wH available to any other person. No title to or ownership of the     *
.wH document is hereby transferred.                                    *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH The information in this document is subject to change without      *
.wH notice and should not be construed as a commitment by DIGITAL      *
.wH Equipment Corporation.                                             *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH "<routine_section>"
.TH pthread_attr_getinheritsched 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_attr_getinheritsched\*O \- Obtains the inherit scheduling attribute of the specified thread attributes object.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "int pthread_attr_getinheritsched"
.dS "pthread_attr_t"
\*Vattr\*0
.dE
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vattr\*O"
Thread attributes object whose inherit scheduling attribute is obtained.
.LE
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Attribute" "scheduling"
.iX "Inherit scheduling attribute" "obtaining"
.iX "Creating a thread" "inherit scheduling attribute"
.iX "Thread creation" "inherit scheduling attribute"
.PP
This routine obtains the value of the inherit scheduling attribute in the
specified thread attributes object. The inherit scheduling attribute
specifies whether threads created using the attributes object inherit the
scheduling attributes of the creating thread, or use the scheduling
attributes stored in the attributes object that is passed to
\*Lpthread_create\*O.
.PP
The default value of the inherit scheduling attribute is
\*LPTHREAD_INHERIT_SCHED\*O.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On successful completion, this routine returns the inherit
scheduling attribute value.
.PP
If an error condition occurs, this routine returns \-1 and sets
\*Eerrno\*O to the corresponding error value. Possible return values are as
follows:
.sp
.TS
center, tab(@);
l l l.
\*LReturn@Error@Description\*O
_
\&Inherit scheduling attribute@@Successful completion.
\&\-1@[\*LEINVAL\*O]@The value specified by \*Vattr\*O is invalid.
\&\-1@[\*LESRCH\*O]@T{
The value specified by \*Vattr\*O does not refer to an existing thread attributes object.
T}
.TE
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
int
pthread_attr_getinheritsched (
        pthread_attr_t attr);
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_attr_create\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_attr_setinheritsched\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_create\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
