.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_mutex_trylock.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 11:10:53 $
.\"
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH                                                                    *
.wH COPYRIGHT (c) 1990 BY DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION,               *
.wH Maynard, Mass.                                                     *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH This document is furnished under a license and may be used and     *
.wH copied only in accordance with the terms of such license and with  *
.wH the inclusion of the above copyright notice. This document or any  *
.wH other copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made         *
.wH available to any other person. No title to or ownership of the     *
.wH document is hereby transferred.                                    *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH The information in this document is subject to change without      *
.wH notice and should not be construed as a commitment by DIGITAL      *
.wH Equipment Corporation.                                             *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH "<routine_section>"
.TH pthread_mutex_trylock 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_mutex_trylock\*O \- Locks a mutex. If the mutex is locked, the calling thread does not wait for the mutex to become available.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "int pthread_mutex_trylock"
.dS "pthread_mutex_t"
\*V*mutex\*O
.dE
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vmutex\*O"
Mutex locked.
.LE
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Mutex" "locking"
.iX "Locking a mutex"
.PP
This routine locks a mutex. If the specified mutex is locked when a thread
calls this routine, the calling thread does not wait for the mutex to become
available.
.PP
When a thread calls this routine, an attempt is made to immediately lock the
mutex. If the mutex is successfully locked, 1 is returned and the current
thread is then the mutex's current owner.
.PP
If the mutex is locked by another thread when this routine is called, 0 is
returned and the thread does not wait to acquire the lock.
.wH "<mark>"
If a fast mutex is owned by the current thread, 0 is returned. If a recursive
mutex is owned by the current thread, 1 is returned and the mutex is
relocked. (To unlock a recursive mutex, each call to
\*Lpthread_mutex_trylock\*O must be matched by a call to
\*Lpthread_mutex_unlock\*O.)
.wH "<endmark>"
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If an error condition occurs, this routine returns \-1 and sets
\*Eerrno\*O to the corresponding error value. Possible return values
are as follows:
.sp
.TS
center, tab(@);
l l l.
\*LReturn@Error@Description\*O
_
\1@@Successful completion.
\00@@T{
The mutex is  locked; therefore, it was not acquired.
T}
\-1@[\*LEINVAL\*O]@The value specified by \*Vmutex\*O is invalid.
.TE
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
int pthread_mutex_trylock(pthread_mutex_t, *mutex);
.oE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.cE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_mutexattr_setkind_np\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_mutex_destroy\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_mutex_init\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_mutex_lock\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_mutex_unlock\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
