.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_exit.3,v $ $Revision: 3.3.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 11:08:42 $
.\"
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH                                                                    *
.wH COPYRIGHT (c) 1990 BY DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION,               *
.wH Maynard, Mass.                                                     *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH This document is furnished under a license and may be used and     *
.wH copied only in accordance with the terms of such license and with  *
.wH the inclusion of the above copyright notice. This document or any  *
.wH other copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made         *
.wH available to any other person. No title to or ownership of the     *
.wH document is hereby transferred.                                    *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH The information in this document is subject to change without      *
.wH notice and should not be construed as a commitment by DIGITAL      *
.wH Equipment Corporation.                                             *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH "<routine_section>"
.TH pthread_exit 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_exit\*O \- Terminates the calling thread.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "void pthread_exit"
.dS "pthread_addr_t"
\*Vstatus\*O
.dE
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vstatus\*O"
Address value copied and returned to the caller of \*Lpthread_join\*O.
.LE
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Thread" "normal termination"
.iX "Termination of a thread" "normal"
.iX "Termination of a thread" "premature successful completion"
.iX "Termination of a thread" "without returning from start routine"
.iX "Normal termination of a thread"
.PP
This routine terminates the calling thread and makes a status value
available to any thread that calls \*Lpthread_join\*O and specifies the
terminating thread.
.PP
An implicit call to \*Lpthread_exit\*O is issued when a thread returns
from the start routine that was used to create it. The function's return
value serves as the thread's exit status. The process exits when the last
running thread calls \*Lpthread_exit\*O.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
None.
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
void pthread_exit (pthread_addr_t status);
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_create\*O(3), \*Lpthread_detach\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_join\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
