.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_attr_getsched.3,v $ $Revision: 3.3.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 11:04:43 $
.\"
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH                                                                    *
.wH COPYRIGHT (c) 1990 BY DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION,               *
.wH Maynard, Mass.                                                     *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH This document is furnished under a license and may be used and     *
.wH copied only in accordance with the terms of such license and with  *
.wH the inclusion of the above copyright notice. This document or any  *
.wH other copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made         *
.wH available to any other person. No title to or ownership of the     *
.wH document is hereby transferred.                                    *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH The information in this document is subject to change without      *
.wH notice and should not be construed as a commitment by DIGITAL      *
.wH Equipment Corporation.                                             *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH "<routine_section>"
.TH pthread_attr_getsched 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_attr_getsched\*O \- Obtains the value of the scheduling policy attribute in the specified thread attributes object.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "int pthread_attr_getsched"
.dS "pthread_attr_t"
\*Vattr\*O
.dE
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vattr\*O"
Thread attributes object whose scheduling policy attribute is obtained.
.LE
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Attribute" "scheduling policy"
.iX "Scheduling policy attribute" "obtaining"
.iX "Creating a thread" "scheduling policy attribute"
.iX "Thread creation" "scheduling policy attribute"
.PP
This routine obtains the scheduling policy of threads created using the
thread attributes object specified by the
\*Vattr\*O parameter.
The default value of the scheduling attribute is \*LSCHED_OTHER\*O.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On successful completion, this routine returns the value of the
scheduling policy attribute.
.PP
If an error condition occurs, this routine returns \-1 and sets
\*Eerrno\*O to the corresponding error value. Possible return values are as
follows:
.sp
.TS
center, tab(@);
l l l.
\*LReturn@Error@Description\*O
_
\&Scheduling policy attribute@@Successful completion.
\&\-1@[\*LEINVAL\*O]@The value specified by \*Vattr\*O is invalid.
\&\-1@[\*LESRCH\*O]@T{
The value specified by \*Vattr\*O does not refer to an existing thread attributes object.
T}
.TE
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
int pthread_attr_getsched (pthread_attr_t attr);
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_attr_create\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_attr_setsched\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_create\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
