.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_cleanup_push.3,v $ $Revision: 3.3.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/07/22 12:24:13 $
.\" 
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH                                                                    *
.wH COPYRIGHT (c) 1990 BY DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION,               *
.wH Maynard, Mass.                                                     *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH This document is furnished under a license and may be used and     *
.wH copied only in accordance with the terms of such license and with  *
.wH the inclusion of the above copyright notice. This document or any  *
.wH other copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made         *
.wH available to any other person. No title to or ownership of the     *
.wH document is hereby transferred.                                    *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH The information in this document is subject to change without      *
.wH notice and should not be construed as a commitment by DIGITAL      *
.wH Equipment Corporation.                                             *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH "<routine_section>"
.TH pthread_cleanup_push 3
.iX "Cleanup routine" "establishing"
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_cleanup_push\*O \- Establishes a cleanup handler that is executed when the thread exits or is
canceled.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "void pthread_cleanup_push"
.dS "void"
\*Vroutine\*L
.dE
.dS "pthread_addr_t"
\*Varg\*O
.dE
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vroutine\*O"
Routine executed as the cleanup handler.
.LI "\*Varg\*O"
Parameter executed with the cleanup routine.
.LE
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This routine pushes the specified routine onto the calling thread's cleanup
stack. The cleanup routine is popped from the stack and executed with the
\*Varg\*O parameter when any of the following actions occur:
.ML
.LI
The thread calls \*Lpthread_exit\*O.
.LI
The thread is canceled.
.LI
The thread calls \*Lpthread_cleanup_pop\*O and specifies a nonzero
value for the \*Vexecute\*O parameter.
.LE
.PP
This routine and \*Lpthread_cleanup_pop\*O are implemented as macros
and must be displayed as statements and in pairs within the same lexical scope.
You can think of the \*Lpthread_cleanup_push\*O macro as expanding to a
string whose first character is a left brace ({) and
\*Lpthread_cleanup_pop\*O as expanding to a string containing the
corresponding right brace (}).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
This routine must be used as a statement.
.PP
If an error is detected, it may be indicated by sending the thread a
synchronously generated signal.
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
void pthread_cleanup_push (void (*routine),
	pthread_addr_t *arg);
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_cancel\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_cleanup_pop\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_exit\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_testcancel\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
