.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_attr_create.3,v $ $Revision: 3.3.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 11:03:57 $
.\"
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
...\" ********************************************************************
...\"                                                                    *
...\" COPYRIGHT (c) 1990 BY DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION,               *
...\" Maynard, Mass.                                                     *
...\"                                                                    *
...\" This document is furnished under a license and may be used and     *
...\" copied only in accordance with the terms of such license and with  *
...\" the inclusion of the above copyright notice. This document or any  *
...\" other copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made         *
...\" available to any other person. No title to or ownership of the     *
...\" document is hereby transferred.                                    *
...\"                                                                    *
...\" The information in this document is subject to change without      *
...\" notice and should not be construed as a commitment by DIGITAL      *
...\" Equipment Corporation.                                             *
...\"                                                                    *
...\" ********************************************************************
.wH "<routine_section>"
.TH pthread_attr_create 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_attr_create\*O \- Creates a thread attributes object that is used to specify the attributes of threads when they are created.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "int pthread_attr_create"
.dS "pthread_attr_t"
\*V*attr\*O
.dE
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vattr\*O"
Thread attributes object created.
.LE
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Thread attributes object" "creating"
.iX "Attributes object" "creating"
.iX "Creating" "thread attributes object"
.iX "Characteristics of created object" "specifying"
.PP
This routine creates a thread attributes object that is used to specify the
attributes of threads when they are created. The attributes object created
by this routine is only used in calls to \*Lpthread_create\*O.
.PP
The individual attributes (internal fields) of the attributes object are set
to default values. (The default values of each attribute are discussed in
the descriptions of the following services.) Use the following
routines to
change the individual attributes:
.ML
.LI
\*Lpthread_attr_setinheritsched\*O
.LI
\*Lpthread_attr_setprio\*O
.LI
\*Lpthread_attr_setsched\*O
.LI
\*Lpthread_attr_setstacksize\*O
.LE
.PP
When an attributes object is used to create a thread, the values of the
individual attributes determine the characteristics of the new object.
Attributes objects perform in a manner similar to additional
parameters.  Changing individual attributes does not affect any objects that
were previously created using the attributes object.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If an error condition occurs, this routine returns \-1 and sets
\*Eerrno\*O to the corresponding error value. Possible return values
are as follows:
.sp
.TS
tab(@);
l l lw(3.0i).
\*LReturn@Error@Description\*O
_
\00@@Successful completion.
\&\-1@[\*LENOMEM\*O]@T{
Insufficient memory exists to create the thread attributes object.
T}
\&\-1@[\*LEINVAL\*O]@The value specified by \*Vattr\*O is invalid.
.TE
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
int pthread_attr_create (pthread_attr_t *attr);
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_attr_delete\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_attr_setinheritsched\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_attr_setprio\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_attr_setsched\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_attr_setstacksize\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_create\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
