.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_yield.3,v $ $Revision: 3.3.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 11:13:50 $
.\"
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH                                                                    *
.wH COPYRIGHT (c) 1990 BY DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION,               *
.wH Maynard, Mass.                                                     *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH This document is furnished under a license and may be used and     *
.wH copied only in accordance with the terms of such license and with  *
.wH the inclusion of the above copyright notice. This document or any  *
.wH other copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made         *
.wH available to any other person. No title to or ownership of the     *
.wH document is hereby transferred.                                    *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH The information in this document is subject to change without      *
.wH notice and should not be construed as a commitment by DIGITAL      *
.wH Equipment Corporation.                                             *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH "<routine_section>"
.TH pthread_yield 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_yield\*O \- Notifies the scheduler that the current thread is willing to release its processor to other threads of the same or higher priority.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
#include <pthread.h>
.fS "void pthread_yield"
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
None.
.PP
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Thread" "releasing processor"
.iX "Thread" "yielding processor to another thread"
.iX "Yielding to another thread"
.iX "Processor" "causing thread to release control of"
.PP
This service notifies the scheduler that the current thread is willing to
release its processor to other threads of the same priority. (A thread
releases its processor to a thread of a higher priority without calling this
service.)
.PP
If the current thread's scheduling policy (as specified in a call to
\*Lpthread_attr_setsched\*O or \*Lpthread_setscheduler\*O) is
\*LSCHED_FIFO, SCHED_RR\*O, or \*LSCHED_OTHER\*O, this service yields
the processor to other threads of the same priority. If no threads of
the same priority are ready to execute, the thread continues.
.PP
This service allows knowledge of the details of an application to be used to
increase fairness. It increases fairness of access to the processor by
removing the current thread from the processor. It also increases fairness
of access to shared resources by removing the current thread from the
processor as soon as it is finished with the resource.
.PP
Call this service when a thread is executing code that denies access to
other threads on a uniprocessor if the scheduling policy is
\*LSCHED_FIFO\*O.
.PP
Use \*Lpthread_yield\*O carefully because misuse causes unnecessary
context switching, which increases overhead without increasing fairness. For
example, it is counter-productive for a thread to yield while it has a
needed resource locked.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
None.
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
void pthread_yield ();
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_attr_setsched\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_setscheduler\*O(3)
.wH "<endroutine_section>"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
