.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_mutexattr_delete.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 11:11:28 $
.\"
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH                                                                    *
.wH COPYRIGHT (c) 1990 BY DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION,               *
.wH Maynard, Mass.                                                     *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH This document is furnished under a license and may be used and     *
.wH copied only in accordance with the terms of such license and with  *
.wH the inclusion of the above copyright notice. This document or any  *
.wH other copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made         *
.wH available to any other person. No title to or ownership of the     *
.wH document is hereby transferred.                                    *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH The information in this document is subject to change without      *
.wH notice and should not be construed as a commitment by DIGITAL      *
.wH Equipment Corporation.                                             *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH "<routine_section>"
.TH pthread_mutexattr_delete 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_mutexattr_delete\*O \- Deletes a mutex attributes object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "int pthread_mutexattr_delete"
.dS "pthread_mutexattr_t"
\*V*attr\*O
.dE
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vattr\*O"
Attributes object deleted.
.LE
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Mutex attributes object" "deleting"
.iX "Deleting" "mutex attributes object"
.PP
This routine deletes a mutex attributes object. Call this routine when a
mutex attributes object is no longer referenced by the
\*Lpthread_mutexattr_create\*O routine.
.PP
This routine gives permission to reclaim storage for the mutex attributes
object. Mutexes that were created using this attributes object are not
affected by the deletion of the mutex attributes object.
.PP
The results of calling this routine are unpredictable if the attributes
object specified in the \*Vattr\*O parameter does not exist.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Possible return values are as follows:
.sp
.TS
center, tab(@);
l l l.
\*LReturn@Error@Description\*O
_
\00@@Successful completion.
.TE
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
int pthread_mutexattr_delete (pthread_mutexattr_t *attr);
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_mutexattr_create\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
