.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_condattr_create.3,v $ $Revision: 3.3.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 11:07:47 $
.\"
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH                                                                    *
.wH COPYRIGHT (c) 1990 BY DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION,               *
.wH Maynard, Mass.                                                     *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH This document is furnished under a license and may be used and     *
.wH copied only in accordance with the terms of such license and with  *
.wH the inclusion of the above copyright notice. This document or any  *
.wH other copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made         *
.wH available to any other person. No title to or ownership of the     *
.wH document is hereby transferred.                                    *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH The information in this document is subject to change without      *
.wH notice and should not be construed as a commitment by DIGITAL      *
.wH Equipment Corporation.                                             *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH "<routine_section>"
.TH pthread_condattr_create 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_condattr_create\*O \- Creates a condition variable attributes object that is used to specify the attributes of condition variables when they are created.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "int pthread_condattr_create"
.dS "pthread_condattr_t"
\*V*attr\*O
.dE
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vattr\*O"
Condition variable attributes object that is created.
.LE
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Condition variable attributes object" "creating"
.iX "Creating" "condition variable attributes object"
.iX "Characteristics of created condition variable" "specifying"
.PP
This routine creates a condition variable attributes object that is used to
specify the attributes of condition variables when they are created. The
condition variable attributes object is initialized with the default value
for all of the attributes defined by a given implementation.
.PP
When a condition variable attributes object is used to create a condition
variable, the values of the individual attributes determine the
characteristics of the new object. Attributes objects act like additional
parameters to object creation. Changing individual attributes does not affect
objects that were previously created using the attributes object.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The created condition variable attributes object is returned to
the \*Vattr\*O parameter.
.PP
If an error condition occurs, this routine returns \-1 and sets \*Eerrno\*O
to the corresponding error value. Possible return values are as
follows:
.sp
.ne 10
.TS
center, tab(@);
l l lw(3.0i).
\*LReturn@Error@Description\*O
_
\00@@Successful completion.
\&\-1@[\*LENOMEM\*O]@T{
Insufficient memory exists to create the condition variable attributes object.
T}
.TE
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
int pthread_condattr_create (pthread_condattr_t *attr);
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_condattr_delete\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_cond_init\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
