.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_mutex_unlock.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 11:11:04 $
.\"
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH                                                                    *
.wH COPYRIGHT (c) 1990 BY DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION,               *
.wH Maynard, Mass.                                                     *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH This document is furnished under a license and may be used and     *
.wH copied only in accordance with the terms of such license and with  *
.wH the inclusion of the above copyright notice. This document or any  *
.wH other copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made         *
.wH available to any other person. No title to or ownership of the     *
.wH document is hereby transferred.                                    *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH The information in this document is subject to change without      *
.wH notice and should not be construed as a commitment by DIGITAL      *
.wH Equipment Corporation.                                             *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH "<routine_section>"
.TH pthread_mutex_unlock 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_mutex_unlock\*O \- Unlocks a mutex.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "int pthread_mutex_unlock"
.dS "phread_mutex_t"
\*V*mutex\*O
.dE
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vmutex\*O"
Mutex unlocked.
.LE
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Mutex" "unlocking"
.iX "Unlocking a mutex"
.PP
This routine unlocks a mutex. If no threads are waiting for the mutex,
the mutex unlocks with no current owner. If one or more threads are
waiting to lock the specified mutex, this routine causes one thread to
return from its call to \*Lpthread_mutex_lock\*O. The scheduling
policy is used to determine which thread acquires the mutex. For the
\*LSCHED_FIFO, SCHED_RR\*O, and \*LSCHED_OTHER\*O policies, a blocked
thread is chosen in priority order, using \*LSCHED_FIFO\*O within priorities.
.PP
The results of calling this routine are unpredictable if the mutex specified
in \*Vmutex\*O is unlocked. The results of calling this routine are
also unpredictable if the mutex specified in \*Vmutex\*O is currently
owned by a thread other than the calling thread.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If an error condition occurs, this routine returns \-1 and sets
\*Eerrno\*O to the corresponding error value. Possible return values
are as follows:
.sp
.TS
center, tab(@);
l l l.
\*LReturn@Error@Description\*O
_
\00@@Successful completion.
\&\-1@[\*LEINVAL\*O]@The value specified by \*Vmutex\*O is invalid.
.TE
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
int pthread_mutex_unlock (pthread_mutex_t *mutex);
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_mutexattr_setkind_np\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_mutex_destroy\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_mutex_init\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_mutex_lock\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_mutex_trylock\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_unlock_global_np\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
