.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_cond_broadcast.3,v $ $Revision: 3.3.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 11:06:28 $
.\"
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH                                                                    *
.wH COPYRIGHT (c) 1990 BY DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION,               *
.wH Maynard, Mass.                                                     *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH This document is furnished under a license and may be used and     *
.wH copied only in accordance with the terms of such license and with  *
.wH the inclusion of the above copyright notice. This document or any  *
.wH other copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made         *
.wH available to any other person. No title to or ownership of the     *
.wH document is hereby transferred.                                    *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH The information in this document is subject to change without      *
.wH notice and should not be construed as a commitment by DIGITAL      *
.wH Equipment Corporation.                                             *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH "<routine_section>"
.TH pthread_cond_broadcast 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_cond_broadcast\*O \- Wakes all threads that are waiting on a condition variable.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "int pthread_cond_broadcast"
.dS "pthread_cond_t"
\*V*cond\*O
.dE
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 10m
.LI "\*Vcond\*O"
Condition variable broadcast.
.LE
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Waking a thread"
.iX "Thread" "waking"
.iX "Broadcasting a wake\(emup"
.PP
This routine wakes all threads waiting on a condition variable. Calling this
routine implies that data guarded by the associated mutex has changed so
that it might be possible for one or more waiting threads to proceed. If any
waiting thread might be able to proceed, call \*Lpthread_cond_signal\*O.
.PP
Call this routine when the associated mutex is either locked or unlocked.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If an error condition occurs, this routine returns \-1 and sets
\*Eerrno\*O to the corresponding error value. Possible return values
are as follows:
.sp
.TS
center, tab(@);
l l l.
\*LReturn@Error@Description\*O
_
\00@@Successful completion.
\&\-1@[\*LEINVAL\*O]@The value specified by \*Vcond\*O is invalid.
.TE
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
int pthread_cond_broadcast (pthread_cond_t *cond);
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_cond_destroy\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_cond_init\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_cond_signal\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_cond_timedwait\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_cond_wait\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
