.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_lock_global_np.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 11:10:09 $
.\"
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH                                                                    *
.wH COPYRIGHT (c) 1990 BY DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION,               *
.wH Maynard, Mass.                                                     *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH This document is furnished under a license and may be used and     *
.wH copied only in accordance with the terms of such license and with  *
.wH the inclusion of the above copyright notice. This document or any  *
.wH other copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made         *
.wH available to any other person. No title to or ownership of the     *
.wH document is hereby transferred.                                    *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH The information in this document is subject to change without      *
.wH notice and should not be construed as a commitment by DIGITAL      *
.wH Equipment Corporation.                                             *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH ********************************************************************
.TH pthread_lock_global_np 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_lock_global_np\*O \- Locks the global mutex. If the global mutex is held by another thread, this routine causes the thread to wait for the global mutex to become available.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "void pthread_lock_global_np"
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
None.
.PP
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Global mutex" "locking"
.iX "Locking a global mutex"
.iX "Nonreentrant library packages" "calling"
.PP
This routine locks the global mutex. If the global mutex is currently held
by another thread when a thread calls this routine, the thread waits for the
global mutex to become available.
.PP
The thread that has locked the global mutex becomes its current owner and
remains the owner until the same thread has unlocked it. This routine
returns with the global mutex in the locked state and with the current
thread as the global mutex's current owner.
.PP
Use the global mutex when calling a library package that is designed to run
in a multithreaded environment. (Unless the documentation for a library
function specifically states that it is compatible with multithreading,
assume that it is not compatible; in other words, assume it is nonreentrant.)
.PP
The global mutex is one lock. Any code that calls any function that is not
known to be reentrant uses the same lock. This prevents dependencies among
threads calling library functions and those functions calling other
functions, and so on.
.PP
The global mutex is a recursive mutex. A thread that has locked the global
mutex can relock it without deadlocking. (The locking thread must call
\*Lpthread_unlock_global_np\*O as many times as it called this routine
to allow another thread to lock the global mutex.)
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
None.
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
void pthread_lock_global_np ();
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_mutexattr_setkind_np\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_mutex_lock\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_mutex_unlock\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_unlock_global_np\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
