.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_mutexattr_create.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 11:11:16 $
.\"
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH                                                                    *
.wH COPYRIGHT (c) 1990 BY DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION,               *
.wH Maynard, Mass.                                                     *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH This document is furnished under a license and may be used and     *
.wH copied only in accordance with the terms of such license and with  *
.wH the inclusion of the above copyright notice. This document or any  *
.wH other copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made         *
.wH available to any other person. No title to or ownership of the     *
.wH document is hereby transferred.                                    *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH The information in this document is subject to change without      *
.wH notice and should not be construed as a commitment by DIGITAL      *
.wH Equipment Corporation.                                             *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH "<routine_section>"
.TH pthread_mutexattr_create 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_mutexattr_create\*O \- Creates a mutex attributes object that is used to specify the attributes of mutexes when they are created.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "int pthread_mutexattr_create"
.dS "pthread_mutexattr_t"
\*V*attr\*O
.dE
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vattr\*O"
Mutex attributes object created.
.LE
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Mutex attributes object" "creating"
.iX "Creating" "mutex attributes object"
.iX "Characteristics of created mutex" "specifying"
.PP
This routine creates a mutex attributes object used to specify the
attributes of mutexes when they are created. The mutex attributes object is
initialized with the default value for all of the attributes defined by a
given implementation.
.PP
When a mutex attributes object is used to create a mutex, the values of the
individual attributes determine the characteristics of the new object.
Attributes objects act like additional parameters to object creation.
Changing individual attributes does not affect any objects that were
previously created using the attributes object.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The created mutex attributes object is returned to the
\*Vattr\*O parameter.
.PP
If an error condition occurs, this routine returns \-1 and sets \*E
errno\*O to the corresponding error value. Possible return values are as
follows:
.sp
.TS
center, tab(@);
l l lw(2.5i).
\*LReturn@Error@Description\*O
_
\00@@Successful completion.
.sp 4p
\-1@[\*LENOMEM\*O]@T{
Insufficient memory exists to create the mutex attributes object.
T}
.TE
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
int pthread_mutexattr_create (pthread_mutexattr_t *attr);
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_create\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_mutexattr_delete\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_mutexattr_getkind_np\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_mutexattr_setkind_np\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_mutex_init\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
