.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_attr_delete.3,v $ $Revision: 3.3.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 11:04:09 $
.\"
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH                                                                    *
.wH COPYRIGHT (c) 1990 BY DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION,               *
.wH Maynard, Mass.                                                     *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH This document is furnished under a license and may be used and     *
.wH copied only in accordance with the terms of such license and with  *
.wH the inclusion of the above copyright notice. This document or any  *
.wH other copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made         *
.wH available to any other person. No title to or ownership of the     *
.wH document is hereby transferred.                                    *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH The information in this document is subject to change without      *
.wH notice and should not be construed as a commitment by DIGITAL      *
.wH Equipment Corporation.                                             *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH "<routine_section>"
.TH pthread_attr_delete 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_attr_delete\*O \- Deletes a thread attributes object.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>\*O
.fS "int pthread_attr_delete"
.dS "pthread_attr_t"
\*V*attr\*O
.dE
.fE
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 10m
.LI "\*Vattr\*O"
Thread attributes object deleted.
.LE
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Thread attributes object" "deleting"
.iX "Deleting" "thread attributes object"
.PP
This routine deletes a thread attributes object.
This routine gives permission to reclaim storage for the thread attributes
object.
Threads that were created using this thread attributes object are not
affected by the deletion of the thread attributes object.
.PP
The results of calling this routine are unpredictable if the value specified
by the \*Vattr\*O parameter refers to a thread attributes object that
does not exist.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If an error condition occurs, this routine returns \(en1 and sets
\*Eerrno\*O to the corresponding error value. Possible return values
are as follows:
.sp
.TS
center, tab(@);
l l l.
\*LReturn@Error@Description\*O
_
\00@@Successful completion.
\&\(en1@[\*LENOMEM\*O]@T{
Insufficient memory exists to create the thread attributes object.
T}
\&\(en1@[\*LEINVAL\*O]@The value specified by \*Vattr\*O is invalid.
\&\(en1@[\*LESRCH\*O]@T{
The value specified by \*Vattr\*O does not refer to an existing thread attributes object.
T}
.TE
.wH "<endnas_return>"

.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
int
pthread_attr_delete (
    pthread_attr_t       *attr);
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_attr_create\*O(3)
.wH "<endroutine_section>"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
