.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_unlock_global_np.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 11:13:40 $
.\"
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH                                                                    *
.wH COPYRIGHT (c) 1990 BY DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION,               *
.wH Maynard, Mass.                                                     *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH This document is furnished under a license and may be used and     *
.wH copied only in accordance with the terms of such license and with  *
.wH the inclusion of the above copyright notice. This document or any  *
.wH other copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made         *
.wH available to any other person. No title to or ownership of the     *
.wH document is hereby transferred.                                    *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH The information in this document is subject to change without      *
.wH notice and should not be construed as a commitment by DIGITAL      *
.wH Equipment Corporation.                                             *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH "<routine_section>"
.TH pthread_unlock_global_np 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_unlock_global_np\*O \- Unlocks a global mutex.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "void pthread_unlock_global_np
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
None.
.PP
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Global mutex" "unlocking"
.iX "Unlocking a global mutex"
.PP
.wH "<mark>"
This routine unlocks the global mutex when each call to
\*Lpthread_lock_global_np\*O has been matched by a call to this
routine. For example, if you called \*Lpthread_lock_global_np\*O three
times, \*Lpthread_unlock_global_np\*O unlocks the global mutex when you
call it the third time.
.wH "<endmark>"
If no threads are waiting for the global mutex, it becomes unlocked
with no current owner. If one or more threads are waiting to lock the
global mutex, one thread returns from its call to
\*Lpthread_lock_global_np\*O. The scheduling policy is used to
determine which thread acquires the global mutex. For the policies
\*LSCHED_FIFO, SCHED_RR\*O, and \*LSCHED_OTHER\*O, a blocked thread is
chosen in priority order, using \*LSCHED_FIFO\*O within priorities.
.PP
The results of calling this routine are unpredictable if the global mutex is
already unlocked. The results of calling this routine are also unpredictable
if the global mutex is owned by a thread other than the calling thread.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
None.
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
void pthread_unlock_global_np ();
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_lock_global_np\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_mutexattr_setkind_np\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_mutex_lock\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_mutex_unlock\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
