.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_mutex_destroy.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 11:10:20 $
.\"
...\" Copyright (c) 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\" **************************************************************************
.\" * COPYRIGHT (c) 1990 BY *
.\" * DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION, Maynard, Mass.  *
.\" *  *
.\" * This document is furnished under a license and may be
.\" * used and copied
.\" * only in accordance with the terms of such license and with the *
.\" * inclusion of the above copyright notice. This document or any other *
.\" * copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made available to any *
.\" * other person. No title to or ownership of the document is hereby *
.\" * transferred.  *
.\" *  *
.\" * The information in this document is subject to change without notice *
.\" * and should not be construed as a commitment by DIGITAL Equipment *
.\" * Corporation.  *
.\" **************************************************************************
.wH "<routine_section>"(P1003.4a routines\3THR)
.wH "<set_template_routine>"(ROUTINE\DOUBLERUNNINGHEADS)
.TH pthread_mutex_destroy 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_mutex_destroy\*O \- Deletes a mutex.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>\*O
.fS "int pthread_mutex_destroy"
.dS "pthread_mutex_t"
\*V*mutex\*O
.dE
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vmutex\*O"
Mutex to be deleted.
.LE
.wH "<endargdeflist>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Mutex" "deleting"
.iX "Deleting a mutex"
.PP
This routine deletes a mutex and should be called when a mutex object
will no longer be referenced. The effect of calling this routine is to
reclaim storage for the mutex object.
.PP
It is illegal to delete a mutex that has a current owner (in other
words, is locked).
.PP
The results of this routine are unpredictable if the mutex object
specified in the \*Vmutex\*O parameter does not currently exist.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If an error condition occurs, this routine returns \(en1 and sets
\*Eerrno\*O to the corresponding error value.
Possible return values are as follows:
.sp
.TS
center, tab(@);
l l l.
\*LReturn@Error@Description\*O
_
\&0@@Successful completion.
\&\-1@[\*LEBUSY\*O]@An attempt was made to destroy a mutex that is locked.
\&\-1@[\*LEINVAL\*O]@The value specified by \*Vmutex\*O is invalid.
.TE
.wH "<endreturn>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
int pthread_mutex_destroy (pthread_mutex_t *mutex);
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endexample>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_mutex_init\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_mutex_lock\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_mutex_trylock\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_mutex_unlock\*O(3)
.wH "<endroutine_section>"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
