.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_self.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/13 21:27:29 $
.\"
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH "<routine_section>"
.TH pthread_self 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_self\*O \- Obtains the identifier of the current thread.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.iX "Thread" "obtaining identifier of"
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "pthread_t pthread_self"\O
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
None.
.PP
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This routine allows a thread to obtain its own identifier.
.wH "<mark>"
Use this identifier in calls to \*Lpthread_setprio\*O and
\*Lpthread_setscheduler\*O.
.wH "<endmark>"
.PP
This value becomes meaningless when the thread object is deleted \(em
that is, when the thread has terminated its execution and
\*Lpthread_detach\*O has been called.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Returns the identifier of the calling thread.
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
pthread_t pthread_self ();
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_create\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_setprio\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_setscheduler\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
