.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_attr_setinheritsched.3,v $ $Revision: 3.3.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/13 21:23:46 $
.\"
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH "<routine_section>"
.TH pthread_attr_setinheritsched 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_attr_setinheritsched\*O \- Changes the inherit scheduling attribute of the specified thread attributes object.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.iX "Attribute" "scheduling"
.iX "Inherit scheduling attribute" "usefulness"
.iX "Creating a thread" "inherit scheduling attribute"
.iX "Thread creation" "inherit scheduling attribute"
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "int pthread_attr_setinheritsched"
.dS "pthread_attr_t"
\*V*attr\*L
.dE
.dS "int"
\*Vinherit\*O
.dE
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 15m
.LI "\*Vattr\*O"
Thread attributes object to be modified.
.LI "\*Vinherit\*O"
New value for the inherit scheduling attribute. Valid values are as follows:
.LE
.VL 15m
.LI "\*LPTHREAD_INHERIT_SCHED\*O"
This is the default value. The created
thread inherits the current priority and scheduling policy of the thread
calling \*Lpthread_create\*O.
.LI "\*LPTHREAD_DEFAULT_SCHED\*O"
The created thread starts execution with
the priority and scheduling policy stored in the thread attributes object.
.LE
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This routine changes the inherit scheduling attribute of thread creation.
The inherit scheduling attribute specifies whether threads created using the
specified thread attributes object inherit the scheduling attributes of the
creating thread, or use the scheduling attributes stored in the thread
attributes object that is passed to \*Lpthread_create\*O.
.PP
The first thread in an application that is not created by an explicit call
to \*Lpthread_create\*O has a scheduling policy of \*LSCHED_OTHER\*O. See the
\*Lpthread_attr_setprio\*O and \*Lpthread_attr_setsched\*O
routines for more information on valid priority values and valid scheduling
policy values, respectively.
.PP
Inheriting scheduling attributes (instead of using the scheduling attributes
stored in the attributes object) is useful when a thread is creating several
helper threads \(em threads that are intended to work closely with the creating
thread to cooperatively solve the same problem. For example, inherited
scheduling attributes ensure that helper threads created in a sort routine
execute with the same priority as the calling thread.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If an error condition occurs, this routine returns \-1 and sets
\*Eerrno\*O to the corresponding error value. Possible return values
are as follows:
.sp
.TS
center, tab(@);
l l l.
\*LReturn@Error@Description\*O
_
\00@@Successful completion.
\&\-1@[\*LEINVAL\*O]@The value specified by \*Vinherit\*O is invalid.
\&\-1@[\*LESRCH\*O]@T{
The value specified by \*Vattr\*O does not refer to an existing thread attributes object.
T}
.TE
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
int pthread_attr_setinheritsched (pthread_attr_t *attr,
 int inherit);
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_attr_create\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_attr_getinheritsched\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_attr_setprio\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_attr_setsched\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_create\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
