.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_attr_setprio.3,v $ $Revision: 3.3.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/13 21:15:15 $
.\"
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH "<routine_section>"
.TH pthread_attr_setprio 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_attr_setprio\*O \- Changes the scheduling priority attribute of thread creation.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.iX "Attribute" "priority"
.iX "Priority attribute"
.iX "Creating a thread" "priority attribute"
.iX "Thread creation" "priority attribute"
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "int pthread_attr_setprio"
.dS "pthread_attr_t"
\*V*attr\*L
.dE
.dS "int"
\*Vpriority\*O
.dE
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vattr\*O"
Thread attributes object modified.
.LI "\*Vpriority\*O"
New value for the priority attribute. The priority attribute is dependent upon scheduling policy. Valid values fall within one of the following five ranges:
.VL 1m
.LI ""
\*LPRI_OTHER_MIN\*O <= \*Vpriority\*O <= \*LPRI_OTHER_MAX\*O
.LI ""
\*LPRI_FIFO_MIN\*O <= \*Vpriority\*O <= \*LPRI_FIFO_MAX\*O
.LI ""
\*LPRI_RR_MIN\*O <= \*Vpriority\*O <= \*LPRI_RR_MAX\*O
.LI ""
\*LPRI_FG_MIN_NP <= \*Vpriority\*O <= \*LPRI_FG_MAX_NP\*O
.LI ""
\*LPRI_BG_MIN_NP <= \*Vpriority\*O <= \*LPRI_BG_MAX_NP\*O
.LE
.LI ""
The default priority is the midpoint between \*LPRI_OTHER_MIN\*O and
\*LPRI_OTHER_MAX\*O. To specify a minimum or maximum priority, use the
appropriate symbol \(em for example, \*LPRI_FIFO_MIN\*O or
\*LPRI_FIFO_MAX\*O. To specify a value between the minimum and
maximum, use an appropriate arithmetic expression.  For example, to
specify a priority mid-way between the minimum and maximum for the
Round Robin scheduling policy, specify the following concept using
your programming language's syntax:
.sp
.oS
pri_rr_mid = (PRI_RR_MIN + PRI_RR_MAX)/2
.oE
.sp
.LI ""
If your expression results in a value outside the range of minimum to
maximum, an error results when you attempt to use it.
.LE
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This routine sets the execution priority of threads that are created using
the attributes object specified by the \*Vattr\*O parameter.
.PP
By default, a created thread inherits the priority of the thread calling
\*Lpthread_create\*O. To specify a priority using this routine,
scheduling inheritance must be disabled at the time the thread is created.
Call \*Lpthread_attr_setinheritsched\*O and specify the value
\*LPTHREAD_DEFAULT_SCHED\*O for the \*Vinherit\*O parameter before calling
this routine and \*Lpthread_create\*O.
.PP
An application specifies priority only to express the urgency of executing
the thread relative to other threads. Priority is not used to control mutual
exclusion when accessing shared data. With a sufficient number of processors
executing, all ready threads, regardless of priority, execute
simultaneously.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If an error condition occurs, this routine returns \-1 and sets
\*Eerrno\*O to the corresponding error value. Possible return values
are as follows:
.sp
.TS
tab(@);
l l lw(3.0i).
\*LReturn@Error@Description\*O
_
\00@@Successful completion.
\&\-1@[\*LEINVAL\*O]@The value specified by \*Vpriority\*O is invalid.
\&\-1@[\*LERANGE\*O]@T{
One or more parameters supplied have an invalid value.
T}
\&\-1@[\*LESRCH\*O]@T{
The value specified by \*Vattr\*O does not refer to an existing thread attributes object.
T}
.TE
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
int pthread_attr_setprio (pthread_attr_t *attr,
 int priority);
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_attr_create\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_attr_getprio\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_attr_setinheritsched\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_create\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
