.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_cond_signal.3,v $ $Revision: 3.3.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 11:07:09 $
.\"
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH                                                                    *
.wH COPYRIGHT (c) 1990 BY DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION,               *
.wH Maynard, Mass.                                                     *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH This document is furnished under a license and may be used and     *
.wH copied only in accordance with the terms of such license and with  *
.wH the inclusion of the above copyright notice. This document or any  *
.wH other copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made         *
.wH available to any other person. No title to or ownership of the     *
.wH document is hereby transferred.                                    *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH The information in this document is subject to change without      *
.wH notice and should not be construed as a commitment by DIGITAL      *
.wH Equipment Corporation.                                             *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH "<routine_section>"
.TH pthread_cond_signal 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_cond_signal\*O \- Wakes one thread that is waiting on a condition variable.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "int pthread_cond_signal"
.dS "pthread_cond_t"
\*V*cond\*O
.dE
.fE
.sE
.PP
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vcond\*O"
Condition variable signaled.
.LE
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Waking a thread"
.iX "Thread" "waking"
.iX "Signaling a wake\(emup"
.PP
This routine wakes one thread waiting on a condition variable. Calling this
routine implies that data guarded by the associated mutex has changed so
that it might be possible for a single waiting thread to proceed. Call this
routine when any thread waiting on the specified condition variable might
find its predicate true, but only one thread should proceed.
.PP
The scheduling policy determines which thread is awakened. For
policies \*LSCHED_FIFO, SCHED_RR\*O, and \*LSCHED_OTHER\*O, a blocked
thread is chosen in priority order, using \*LSCHED_FIFO\*O (First In, First Out)
within priorities.
.PP
Call this routine when the associated mutex is either locked or unlocked.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If an error condition occurs, this routine returns \-1 and sets
\*Eerrno\*O to the corresponding error value. Possible return values
are as follows:
.sp
.TS
center, tab(@);
l l l.
\*LReturn@Error@Description\*O
_
\00@@Successful completion.
\&\-1@[\*LEINVAL\*O]@The value specified by \*Vcond\*O is invalid.
.TE
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
int pthread_cond_signal (pthread_cond_t *cond);
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_cond_broadcast\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_cond_destroy\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_cond_init\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_cond_timedwait\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_cond_wait\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
