.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pthread_getspecific.3,v $ $Revision: 3.3.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 11:09:25 $
.\"
...\" Copyright 1991, Open Software Foundation, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH                                                                    *
.wH COPYRIGHT (c) 1990 BY DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION,               *
.wH Maynard, Mass.                                                     *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH This document is furnished under a license and may be used and     *
.wH copied only in accordance with the terms of such license and with  *
.wH the inclusion of the above copyright notice. This document or any  *
.wH other copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made         *
.wH available to any other person. No title to or ownership of the     *
.wH document is hereby transferred.                                    *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH The information in this document is subject to change without      *
.wH notice and should not be construed as a commitment by DIGITAL      *
.wH Equipment Corporation.                                             *
.wH                                                                    *
.wH ********************************************************************
.wH "<routine_section>"
.TH pthread_getspecific 3
.SH NAME
\*Lpthread_getspecific\*O \- Obtains the per-thread context associated with the specified key.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <pthread.h>
.fS "int pthread_getspecific"
.dS "pthread_key_t"
\*Vkey\*L
.dE
.dS "pthread_addr_t"
\*V*value\*O
.dE
.fE
.sE
.wH "<endformat>"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 5m
.LI "\*Vkey\*O"
Context key value that identifies the context value obtained. This key value
must be obtained from \*Lpthread_keycreate\*O, or it must be a key
value predefined by the implementation (if predefined key values are
provided).
.LI "\*Vvalue\*O"
Address of the current per-thread context value associated with the
specified key.
.LE
.wH "<endparameters>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Per-thread context" "obtaining"
.iX "Context" "obtaining"
.iX "Key value" "obtaining per-thread context for"
.PP
This routine obtains the per-thread context associated with the specified
key for the current thread.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If an error condition occurs, this routine returns \-1 and sets
\*Eerrno\*O to the corresponding error value. Possible return values
are as follows:
.sp
.TS
center, tab(@);
l l l.
\*LReturn@Error@Description\*O
_
\00@@Successful completion.
\&\-1@[\*LEINVAL\*O]@The key value is invalid.
.TE
.wH "<endnas_return>"
.cS
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.oS
int pthread_getspecific (pthread_key_t key,
 pthread_addr_t *value);
.oE
.cE
.wH "<endnas_examples>"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpthread_keycreate\*O(3),
\*Lpthread_setspecific\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
