.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: putenv.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/07/22 13:42:49 $
.\" 
...\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" 
...\"
...\"
.TH putenv 3
.iX "putenv function"
.SH NAME
\*Lputenv\*O - Sets an environment variable
.iX "environment variable" "setting of"
.iX "setting environment variables"
.SH LIBRARY
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <stdlib.h>
.PP 
\*Lint putenv (
.nL
	char *\*Vstring \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
...\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vstring"
\*OPoints to a \*Vname\*O=\*Vvalue\*O string.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP 
The
\*Lputenv(\|)\*O
function sets the value of an environment variable by altering
an existing variable or by creating a new one.  The \*Vstring\*O
parameter points to a string of the form \*Vname\*O=\*Vvalue\*O,
where \*Vname\*O is the environment variable and \*Vvalue\*O
is the new value for it.
.SH NOTES
\*OThe \*Lputenv(\|)\*O function manipulates the \*Lenviron\*O
external variable,
and it can be used in conjunction with the \*Lgetenv(\|)\*O
function.
However, the third parameter
to the main function (the environment pointer), is not changed.
.PP 
\*OThe
\*Lputenv(\|)\*O function uses the \*Lmalloc(\|)\*O function to
enlarge the environment.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Trial use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon
successful completion, a value of 0 (zero)
is returned.  If the \*Lmalloc(\|)\*O
function is unable to obtain sufficient space to expand the environment,
then the \*Lputenv(\|)\*O function returns a nonzero value.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lclearenv\*O(3),
\*Lexec\*O(2),
\*Lgetenv\*O(3),
\*Lmalloc\*O(3)
.iX "putenv function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
