.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: putshort.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/20 17:22:24 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH putshort 3
.SH NAME
\*Lputshort\*O \- Places short byte quantities into the byte stream
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.sp .4v
\*L#include <netinet/in.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*L#include <arpa/nameser.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*L#include <resolv.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lvoid putshort\*O (\*L
.sp .4v
	\*Lunsigned short \*Vshort\*L,\*O
.sp .4v
	\*Lu_char *\*Vmessage_ptr \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vshort"
\*ORepresents
a 16-bit integer.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vmessage_ptr" 
\*ORepresents
a pointer into the byte stream.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "putshort function"
.iX "short byte quantities" "placing in byte stream"
.iX "byte quantities" "short"
.PP 
The \*Lputshort(\|)\*O function puts short byte quantities into
the \*Obyte stream or arbitrary
byte boundaries.
.PP 
The \*Lputshort(\|)\*O function is one of a set of subroutines
that form the \*Oresolver, a set of functions
that resolve domain names.  Global information that is used by the
resolver functions is kept in the \*L_res\*O data structure.
The  \*L/include/resolv.h\*O
file contains
the \*L_res \*Ostructure definition.
.SH FILES
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*L/etc/resolv.conf"
\*OLists
the name server and domain name.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Ldn_comp\*O(3),
\*Ldn_expand\*O(3),
\*Ldn_find\*O(3),
\*Ldn_skipname\*O(3),
\*Lgetlong\*O(3),
\*Lgetshort\*O(3),
\*Lputlong\*O(3),
\*Lres_init\*O(3),
\*Lres_mkquery\*O(3),
\*Lres_send\*O(3)
.iX "putshort function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
