.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pw_mapping.3,v $ $Revision: 3.5.4.8 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/15 02:10:10 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 SecureWare, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved
.\" @(#)pw_mapping.3	1.2 17:50:22 3/28/90 SecureWare
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
.TH pw_mapping 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lpw_nametoid\*O, \*Lpw_idtoname\*O, \*Lgr_nametoid\*O, \*Lgr_idtoname\*O \- Map between user and group names and IDs (Enhanced Security)
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Security Library (\*Llibsecurity.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.nL
#include <sys/prot.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Luid_t pw_nametoid(
.nL
	char *\*Vname\*L)
.sp 0.4v
\*Lchar *pw_idtoname(
.nL
	uid_t \*Vid\*L);
.sp 0.4v
\*Lgid_t gr_nametoid(
.nL
	char *\*Vname\*L);
.sp 0.4v
\*Lchar *gr_idtoname(
.nL
	gid_t \*Vid\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Specifies the user (\*Lpw_nametoid(\|)\*O) or group
(\*Lgr_nametoid(\|)\*O) name.
.LI "\*Vid\*O"
Specifies the user (\*Lpw_idtoname(\|)\*O) or group (\*Lgr_idtoname(\|)\*O) ID.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "mapping user and group names"
.iX "names" "mapping between user and group"
.iX "pw_nametoid function"
.iX "pw_idtoname function"
.iX "gr_nametoid function"
.iX "gr_idtoname function"
These routines provide an efficient mapping between user and group names and
identifiers (IDs).
They maintain a separate binary database, which is automatically updated
each time the routines encounter a changed
\*L/etc/passwd\*O
or
\*L/etc/group\*O
file.
Also, these routines do not interfere with the behavior of the
\*Lgetpwent(\|)\*O and \*Lgetgrent(\|)\*O routines, and are thus used by
the protected password database routines, which must frequently convert between
names and identifiers but may not disrupt an application's use of password
mapping routines.
.\".P
.\" These routines are much more efficient than the \*Lgetpwent(\|)\*O and
.\" \*Lgetgrent(\|)\*O routines, in that they do not parse the underlying files
.\" and keep the database in memory after the first use.
.\" Thus, savings are much greater for the second and subsequent lookups.
.SH NOTES
.PP
Programs using these routines must be compiled with \%\*L-lsecurity\*O.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Routines returning character strings return null on failure, and a pointer
to a string in an internal (that is, internal to the routines) memory
area containing the user or group name on success.
Routines returning integers return a nonnegative user or group ID
on success, or a value of -1 on failure.
.SH FILES
.PP
...\"from TP "
...\" Bold under TP !"
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/auth/system/pw_id_map\*O"
Username to ID binary map.
...\"from TP "
...\" Bold under TP !"
.LI "\*L/etc/auth/system/gr_id_map\*O"
Group name to ID binary map.
...\"from TP "
...\" Bold under TP !"
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O"
System password file.
...\"from TP "
...\" Bold under TP !"
.LI "\*L/etc/group\*O"
System group file.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetgrent\*O(3),
\*Lgetprpwent\*O(3),
\*Lgetpwent\*O(3).
.iX "gr_idtoname function"
.iX "gr_nametoid function"
.iX "pw_idtoname function"
.iX "pw_nametoid function"
.\" #endif /* SEC_BASE */
.EQ
delim off
.EN
