.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: qsort.3f,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 13:10:15 $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)qsort.3f 6.1 (Berkeley) 5/15/85
.\"
.TH qsort 3f
.SH NAME
qsort \- quick sort
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B subroutine qsort (array, len, isize, compar)
.br
.B external compar
.br
.B integer[*2] compar
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
One dimensional
\*Varray\*O
contains the elements to be sorted.
\*Vlen\*O
is the number of elements in the array.
\*Visize\*O
is the size of an element, typically -
.sp 1
.in +5
4 for
.B integer
and
.B real
.br
8 for
.B "double precision"
or
.B complex
.br
16 for
.B "double complex"
.br
(length of character object) for
.B character
arrays
.in -5
.sp 1
\*VCompar\*O
is the name of a user supplied integer or integer*2 function
that will determine the sorting order.  You must declare
\*Vcompar\*O
as external with the "external" statement to be
recognized as a function.
This function will be called with 2 arguments that will be elements of
\*Varray.\*O
The function must return -
.sp 1
.in +5
negative if arg 1 is considered to precede arg 2
.br
zero if arg 1 is equivalent to arg 2
.br
positive if arg 1 is considered to follow arg 2
.in -5
.sp 1
On return, the elements of
\*Varray\*O
will be sorted.
.SH FILES
.PP
.ie \nM /usr/ucb/lib/libU77.a
.el /usr/lib/libU77.a
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lqsort\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
