.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: qsort.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/20 17:22:59 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH qsort 3
.SH NAME
\*Lqsort\*O \- Sorts a table in place
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <stdlib.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lvoid qsort\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lvoid\*O *\*Vbase\*O,\*L
.wH .ti +0.2i
.nL
	\*Lsize_t \*Vnmemb\*O,\*L
.nL
.wH .ti +0.2i
	\*Lsize_t \*Vsize\*O,\*L
.wH .ti +0.2i
.nL
	\*Lint\*O (\|(*\*Vcompar\*O)(\*Lconst void *\*O, \*Lconst void *\*O)\|) ;\*L
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vbase\*O"
Points to the first entry in the table.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vnmemb\*O" 
Specifies the number of entries in the table.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vsize\*O" 
Specifies the size in bytes of each table entry.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vcompar\*O" 
Points to the user-specified function
to be used to compare pairs of table elements.
The comparison function will be called with two parameters that
point to the two elements to be compared. The comparison function must
return an integer less than, equal to, or greater than zero, depending
on whether the
first element in the comparison is considered less than, equal to,
or greater than the second element.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "qsort function"
.iX "sorting tables"
.iX "table" "sorting"
The \*Lqsort(\|)\*O function sorts a table having a specified number
of entries. The contents of the table are sorted in ascending order
according to a user-specified
comparison function (the \*Lstrcmp(\|)\*O function, for example).
.SH NOTES
The comparison function need not compare every byte, so arbitrary data
may be contained in the elements in addition to the values being
compared.
.PP
When two members compare equal, their order in the sorted array
is indeterminate.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lbsearch(\|), lsearch(\|)\*O
.iX "qsort function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
