.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: raise.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/20 17:23:12 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH raise 3
.SH NAME
\*Lraise\*O \- Sends a signal to the executing program
.SH LIBRARY
\*OStandard C Library \*O(\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/signal.h>
.sp .4v
int raise(
.nL
	int \*Vsignal \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vsignal"
\*OSpecifies a signal number.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "raise function"
.iX "signals" "sending"
.iX "sending signals"
.PP 
The \*Lraise(\|)\*O function sends the signal specified by the
\*Vsignal\*O
parameter to the executing program. It is equivalent to the following:
.rS 
\*Lerror = kill(getpid(\|), signal);\*O
.rE 
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion of the \*Lraise(\|)\*O function,
a value of 0 (zero) is returned. Otherwise, a nonzero value is returned
and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If the
\*Lraise(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to the following value:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The value of the
\*Vsignal\*O
parameter
is an invalid or unsupported signal number.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lkill\*O(2),
\*Lsigaction\*O(2)
.iX "raise function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
