.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rcmd.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/15 00:36:15 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH rcmd 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lrcmd\*O,  \*Lrcmd_r\*O \- Allow execution of commands on a remote host
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.sp .4v
\*L#include <netdb.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint rcmd\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lchar **\*Vhost\*L,
.nL
	\*Lu_short \*Vport\*L,
.nL
	\*Lchar *\*Vlocal_user\*L,
.nL
	char *\*Vremote_user\*L,
.nL
	char *\*Vcommand\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint *\*Verr_file_desc\*L);
.sp .4V
\*Lint rcmd_r\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lchar **\*Vhost\*L,
.nL
	\*Lu_short \*Vport\*L,
.nL
	\*Lchar *\*Vlocal_user\*L,
.nL
	char *\*Vremote_user\*L,
.nL
	char *\*Vcommand\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint *\*Verr_file_desc\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct hostent_data \*V*host_data\*O);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vhost"
\*OSpecifies
the name of a remote host that is listed in the \*L/etc/hosts\*O
file.
The function sets the \*Vhost\*O parameter to be the
fully qualified hostname.
.LI "\*Vport"
\*OSpecifies
the \*Owell-known \*Oport
to use for the connection.  The \*L/etc/services
\*Ofile contains
the DARPA Internet services, their ports, and socket types.
.LI "\*Vlocal_user\*O"
\*OPoints to usernames that are valid at the local
host.  Any valid username can be given.
.LI "\*Vremote_user"
\*OPoints to usernames that are valid at the
remote host.  Any valid username can be given.
.LI "\*Vcommand"
\*OSpecifies
the name of the command to be executed at the remote host.
.LI "\*Verr_file_desc"
\*OPoints to an address used by \*Lrcmd(\|)\*O to store a pointer to
the file descriptor for a channel used by the remote process to write
\*Lstderr\*O messages and to accept bytes as signal
numbers to be forwarded to the process group of the command.
.sp
If a null pointer is specified, the standard error (\*Lstderr\*O) of the remote
command is the same as the standard output (\*Lstdout\*O).  No provision
is made for sending arbitrary signals to the remote process.  However,
it is possible to send out-of-band data to the remote command.
.LI "\*Vhost_data\*O"
Per-thread data for reentrant version.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "rcmd function"
.iX "executing commands on remote host"
.iX "remote host" "executing commands on"
.iX "commands" "executing on remote host"
The \*Lrcmd(\|)\*O (remote command) function allows execution
of certain commands on a remote host.
For example, the \*Lrcmd(\|)\*O function is used by \*Lrsh\*O and
\*Lrlogin\*O, among others.
.PP
The \*Lrcmd(\|)\*O function looks up a host via the name server
or, if the local name server is not running, via the \*L/etc/hosts\*O
file.  If the connection succeeds, a socket in the
Internet domain of type
\*LSOCK_STREAM\*O is returned
to the calling process and given to the remote command as standard
input (\*Lstdin\*O) and standard output (\*Lstdout\*O).
.PP
Always specify the \*Vhost\*O name.  If the local domain and
remote domain are the same, specifying the domain parts is optional.
The \*Lrcmd(\|)\*O function returns the fully qualified hostname in
the \*Vhost\*O parameter. To reuse the \*Vhost\*O name in another
\*Lrcmd(\|)\*O call, you should make a string copy of the \*Vhost\*O
parameter.
For example:
.oS
rcmd ( &host, .... );
first_host = strdup(host);
\&...
rcmd ( &host, .... );
.oE
.PP
Only processes with an effective
\*Ouser ID of root user
can use the \*Lrcmd(\|)\*O function.  An authentication scheme based
on remote port numbers is used to verify permissions.  Ports in the
range from 0 to 1023 can only be used by a root user.
.PP
The \*Lrcmd_r(\|)\*O function is the reentrant version of
\*Lrcmd(\|)\*O.  The \*Lnetdb.h\*O header file defines the
\*Lhostent_data\*O structures.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lrcmd(\|)\*O function returns
a valid socket descriptor.
The function returns a value of -1
if the effective user ID of the calling process is not root
user, if the function fails to resolve the host, or if it encounters a
socket connection error.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/services"
\*OContains
the service names, ports, and socket types.
.LI "\*L/etc/hosts"
\*OContains
hostnames and their addresses for the hosts in a network.
.LI "\*L/etc/resolv.conf"
\*OContains the name server and the domain name.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgethostname\*O(2),
\*Lrresvport\*O(3),
\*Lruserok\*O(3),
\*Lsethostname\*O(2).
.PP
Commands:
\*Lrlogin\*O(1),
\*Lrsh\*O(1).
.iX "rcmd function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
