.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: re_comp.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/15 00:39:28 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH re_comp 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lre_comp\*O, \*Lre_exec\*O \- Handle regular expressions
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" .ig ++
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.\" .nL
.\" .++
.\" Re-instated libc.a and commented out libbsd.a as per Tom Woodburn
.\" on 6/27/93.
.\" Berkeley Compatibility Library (\*Llibbsd.a)
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <regex.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lchar *re_comp\*L(
.nL
        \*Lchar *\*Vstring\*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint re_exec\*L(
.nL
        \*Lchar *\*Vstring\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vstring\*O"
Points to the string that is to be matched or converted.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "re_comp function"
.iX "re_exec function"
.iX "expressions" "regular"
.iX "regular expressions"
The \*Lre_comp(\|)\*O  function converts a string into an internal
form suitable for pattern matching.  The \*Lre_exec(\|)\*O function
compares the \*Vstring\*O parameter with the last string passed to the
\*Lre_comp(\|)\*O function.
.PP
When the \*Lre_comp(\|)\*O function
is passed a value of 0 (zero) or NULL, the
regular expression currently being converted remains unchanged.
.PP
Strings passed to both the \*Lre_comp(\|)\*O and \*Lre_exec(\|)\*O
functions may have trailing or embedded newline characters; however, these
strings are terminated by a
.\" .zA "defect, 7874, R1.1.2, Changed NULL to zero byte"
zero byte.
.\" .zZ "defect, 7874, R1.1.2, Changed NULL to zero byte"
.\" .zA "defect, 7874, R1.1.2, Changed regexp to grep, and removed stuff"
Recognized regular expressions
are described in the \*Lgrep\*O(1) reference page.
.\" .zZ "defect, 7874, R1.1.2, Changed regexp to grep, and removed stuff"
.\" .zA "defect, 7874, R1.1.2, Added obsolescence warning"
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lre_comp(\|)\*O function returns a value of 0
(zero) when the string pointed
to by the \*Vstring\*O parameter is successfully converted; otherwise,
an error message string is returned.
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lre_exec(\|)\*O function
returns a value of 1 if \*Vstring\*O
matches the last compiled regular expression.  Otherwise, the
\*Lre_exec(\|)\*O function returns a value of 0 (zero), if \*Vstring\*O
fails to match the last compiled regular expression, and a value of
-1, if the compiled
regular expression is invalid (indicating an internal error).
.SH NOTES
.PP
These interfaces are obsolete; they do not support multibyte
characters and should be avoided.  Use the POSIX \*Lregcomp(\|)\*O
interface
in place of \*Lre_comp(\|)\*O and \*Lre_exec(\|)\*O.
.\" .zZ "defect, 7874, R1.1.2, Added obsolescence warning"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.\" .zA "defect, 7874, R1.1.2, Changed references"
Functions:
\*Lregcomp\*O(3).
.PP
Commands:
\*Lgrep\*O(1).
.\" .zZ "defect, 7874, R1.1.2, Changed references"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
