.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: refresh.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/15 21:42:22 $
.\"
.TH refresh 3
.SH NAME
\*Lrefresh\*O, \*Lwrefresh\*O \- Refreshs the window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O

\*Lint refresh(\|)\*O

\*Lint wrefresh(\*Vwin\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "refresh macro"
.iX "wrefresh subroutine"
The routine \*Lwrefresh\*O copies the named window to
the physical terminal screen, taking into account what
is already there in order to optimize cursor movement.
.PP
The routine \*Lrefresh\*O does the same, using \*Lstdscr\*O
as a default screen.
.PP
These routines \*Vmust\*O
be called to get any output on the terminal,
as other routines only manipulate data structures.
.PP
Unless \*Lleaveok\*O has been enabled, the physical
cursor of the terminal is left at the location of the window's cursor.
The routine \*Lrefresh\*O is a macro.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lrefresh\*O and \*Lwrefresh\*O
functions return OK on success and ERR on error.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lleaveok\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
