.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: reltimer.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/20 17:24:28 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH reltimer 3
.SH NAME
\*Lreltimer\*O \- Establishes timeout intervals of a per-process timer
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/timers.h\*O>\*L
.sp .4v
\*Lint reltimer\*O(\*L
.wH .ti +0.2i
.nL
	\*Ltimer_t \*Vtmrid\*O,\*L
.wH .ti +0.2i
.nL
	\*Lstruct itimerspec\*O *\*Vval\*O,\*L
.wH .ti +0.2i
.nL
	\*Lstruct itimerspec *\*Voval\*O) ;\*L
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vtmrid\*O"
Specifies the per-process timer to access.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vval\*O" 
Points to a type \*Litimerspec\*O structure containing the values
of the initial and offset timeout intervals.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Voval\*O" 
Points to a type \*Litimerspec\*O structure where the current
value of the timer timeout interval and the time-to-go are to be
stored.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "reltimer function"
.iX "process timer"
.iX "timeout intervals for processes"
The \*Lreltimer(\|)\*O function establishes initial and offset
timeout intervals of a per-process timer specified by the
\*Vtmrid\*O parameter. Initial and offset timeout interval information is
stored in an
\*Litimerspec\*O
structure pointed to by the \*Vval\*O parameter. When the
per-process timer specified by the \*Vtmrid\*O parameter is active, after
timeout of the initial time interval, all subsequent timeouts are
controlled by the offset timeout value; as long as \*Vtmrid\*O
continues to operate, the offset values pointed to by the \*Vval\*O parameter
are used as the per-process timeout interval. The current timeout interval
and the time-to-go are returned to the location pointed to by
the \*Voval\*O parameter.
.PP
Initial and offset time information for the per-process timer is
stored in space reserved by a type \*Litimerspec\*O structure pointed
to by the \*Vval\*O parameter. A type \*Litimerspec\*O structure is
also used to store returned time information specified by the
\*Voval\*O parameter. The \*Litimerspec\*O structure is defined in the
\*Lsys/timers.h\*O include file.
.SH NOTES
Time values smaller than the resolution of the specified timer are
rounded up to the resolution value. Time values larger than the maximum
timeout value of the specified per-process timer are rounded down to that
maximum value.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Trial use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the \*Lreltimer(\|)\*O function returns 0 (zero).
Otherwise, -1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
If the \*Lreltimer(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to the following value:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vtimerid\*O parameter does not specify an allocated per-process
timer, or the \*Vval\*O parameter points to a
nanosecond value less than zero or greater than or equal to 1000 million.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lalarm\*O(3),
\*Lgetclock\*O(3),
\*Lgettimer\*O(3),
\*Lmktimer\*O(3)
.iX "reltimer function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
