.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: remove.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/20 17:24:39 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH remove 3
.SH NAME
\*Lremove\*O \-  Removes a file
.SH LIBRARY
.PP 
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <stdio.h>
.PP 
\*Lint remove(
.nL
	const char *\*Vfile_name \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vfile_name\*O"
Points to the file to be removed.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "remove function"
.iX "removing a file"
.iX "file" "removing"
.PP 
The \*Lremove(\|)\*O function causes a file named by the
string pointed to by \*Vfile_name\*O to be no longer accessible
by that name.  A subsequent attempt to open that file using that name
will fail unless it is created anew.
.PP 
If the
\*Vfile_name\*O
parameter
is called on a directory, it is equivalent to calling the
\*Lrmdir(\|)\*O
function on that directory.
.SH NOTES
.PP 
If the file operated upon by the \*Lremove(\|)\*O function has
multiple links, the link count in the file is decremented.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lremove(\|)\*O
function returns 0 (zero). Otherwise, a nonzero value is returned.
.SH ERRORS
Refer to the
\*Lunlink(\|)\*O
function and the
\*Lrmdir(\|)\*O
function for information on error conditions.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Llink\*O(2),
\*Lrename\*O(2)
.PP 
Commands:
\*Llink\*O(1),
\*Lunlink\*O(1)
.iX "remove function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
