.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: res_mkquery.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/20 17:25:04 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH res_mkquery 3
.SH NAME
\*Lres_mkquery\*O \- Makes query messages for name servers
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.sp .4v
\*L#include <netinet/in.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*L#include <arpa/nameser.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*L#include <resolv.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint res_mkquery\*O (\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vquery_type\*L,
.nL
	\*Lchar *\*Vdomain_name\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vclass\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vtype\*L,
.nL
	\*Lchar *\*Vdata\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vdata_length\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct rrec *\*Vreserved\*L,
.nL
	\*Lchar *\*Vbuffer\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vbuf_length \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vquery_type"
\*OSpecifies
a query type.  The usual type is QUERY, but the parameter
can be set to any of the query types defined in the \*Larpa/nameser.h\*O
file.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vdomain_name" 
\*OPoints to
the name of the domain.  If the \*Vdomain_name\*O parameter points
to a single label and the
RES_DEFNAMES bit is
set, as it is by default, the function appends \*Vdomain_name\*O to
the current domain name.  The current domain name is defined by the
name server in use or in the \*L/etc/resolv.conf\*O
file.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vclass" 
\*OSpecifies
one of the following parameters:
.wH .RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.\"from TP .5i"  
.VL
.LI "C_IN" 
Specifies the ARPA Internet.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "C_CHAOS" 
Specifies the Chaos network at MIT.
.wH .RE
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LE
.LI "\*Vtype" 
\*ORequires
one of the following values:
.wH .RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL
.LI "T_A" 
Host address
.\"from TP "  
.LI "T_NS" 
Authoritative server
.\"from TP "  
.LI "T_MD" 
Mail destination
.\"from TP "  
.LI "T_MF" 
Mail forwarder
.\"from TP "  
.LI "T_CNAME" 
Canonical name
.\"from TP "  
.LI "T_SOA" 
Start of authority zone
.\"from TP "  
.LI "T_MB" 
\*OMailbox domain name
.\"from TP "  
.LI "T_MG" 
Mail group member
.\"from TP "  
.LI "T_MR" 
Mail rename name
.\"from TP "  
.LI "T_NULL" 
NULL resource record
.\"from TP "  
.LI "T_WKS" 
Well known service
.\"from TP "  
.LI "T_PTR" 
Domain name pointer
.\"from TP "  
.LI "T_HINFO" 
Host information
.\"from TP "  
.LI "T_MINFO" 
Mailbox information
.\"from TP "  
.LI "T_MX" 
Mail routing information
.\"from TP "  
.LI "T_UINFO" 
User (\*Lfinger\*O) information
.\"from TP "  
.LI "T_UID" 
User ID
.\"from TP "  
.LI "T_GID" 
Group ID
.wH .RE
.LE
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "\*Vdata" 
\*OPoints to the
data that is sent to the name server as a search key.  The data is
stored as a character array.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vdata_length" 
\*ODefines
the size of the array pointed to by the \*Vdata\*O parameter.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vreserved" 
\*OSpecifies
a reserved and currently unused parameter.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vbuffer" 
\*OPoints to
a location containing the query message.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vbuf_length" 
\*OSpecifies
the length of the message pointed to by the \*Vbuffer\*O parameter.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "res_mkquery function"
.iX "name servers" "query messages for"
.iX "query messages for name servers"
.PP 
The \*Lres_mkquery(\|)\*O function makes packets for name servers
in the Internet domain.  The \*Lres_mkquery(\|)\*O
function makes a standard query message and places it
in the location pointed to by the \*Vbuffer\*O parameter.
.PP 
The \*Lres_mkquery(\|)\*O function is one of a set of subroutines
that form the \*Oresolver, a set of functions
that resolve domain names.  Global information that is used by the
resolver functions is kept in the \*L_res\*O data structure.
The  \*L/include/resolv.h\*O
file contains
the \*L_res\*O data structure definition.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the \*Lres_mkquery(\|)\*O function
returns the size of the query. If the query is larger than the value
of the \*Vbuf_length\*O parameter, the function fails and returns
a value of -1.
.SH FILES
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "\*L/etc/resolv.conf"
\*OContains
the name server and domain name.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Ldn_comp\*O(3),
\*Ldn_expand\*O(3),
\*Ldn_find\*O(3),
\*Ldn_skipname\*O(3),
\*Lgetlong\*O(3),
\*Lgetshort\*O(3),
\*Lputlong\*O(3),
\*Lputshort\*O(3),
\*Lres_init\*O(3),
\*Lres_send\*O(3)
.iX "res_mkquery function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
