.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: res_init.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/07/22 13:42:59 $
.\" 
...\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" 
...\"
.TH res_init 3
.iX "res_init function"
.SH NAME
\*Lres_init\*O - Searches for a default domain name and Internet address
.iX "domain name" "searching for default"
.iX "Internet address" "searching for"
.iX "searching for default domain name"
.iX "searching for Internet address"
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library \*L(libc.a)\*O
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.sp .4v
\*L#include <netinet/in.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*L#include <arpa/nameser.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*L#include <resolv.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lvoid res_init ( void );
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP 
The \*Lres_init(\|)\*O function reads the \*L/etc/resolv.conf\*O
file for
the default \*Odomain name and the Internet address of the
initial hosts running the
\*Oname server,
even if the name server is not functioning.
.PP 
The \*Lres_init(\|)\*O function is one of a set of subroutines
that form the resolver, a set of functions
that resolve domain names.  All resolver functions
use the \*L/usr/include/resolv.h\*O
header file, which defines the
\*L_res\*O data structure.  The \*Lres_init(\|)
\*Ofunction stores domain name information in the \*L_res\*O data structure.
.SH NOTES
.PP 
If the \*L/etc/resolv.conf\*O file does not
exist, the \*Lres_init(\|) \*Ofunction attempts name resolution using
the local \*L/etc/hosts
\*Ofile.  If
the system is not using a domain name server, the \*L/etc/resolv.conf \*Ofile
should not exist.  The \*L/etc/host\*O file should be present
on the system even if the system is using a name server.  In this
instance, the file should contain the host IDs that the system requires
to function even if the name server is not functioning.
.wH .rS
.SH FILES
...\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*L/etc/resolv.conf"
\*OContains the name server and domain name.
...\"from TP "  
.LI "\*L/etc/hosts" 
\*O Contains hostnames and their addresses for hosts in a network.
This file is used to resolve a hostname into an Internet address.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Ldn_comp\*O(3),
\*Ldn_expand\*O(3),
\*Ldn_find\*O(3),
\*Ldn_skipname\*O(3),
\*Lgetlong\*O(3),
\*Lgetshort\*O(3),
\*Lputlong\*O(3),
\*Lputshort\*O(3),
\*Lres_mkquery\*O(3),
\*Lres_send\*O(3)
.iX "res_init function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
