.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rmtimer.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/07/22 13:43:22 $
.\" 
...\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" 
...\"
...\"
.TH rmtimer 3
.iX "rmtimer function"
.SH NAME
\*Lrmtimer\*O -  Frees a per-process timer
.iX "process timer" "freeing"
.iX "freeing process timers"
.iX "timers"
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/timers.h\*O>\*L
.sp .4v
\*Lint rmtimer\*O(\*L
.wH .ti +0.2i
.nL
	\*Ltimer_t \*Vtimer_id\*L );
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
...\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vtimer_id\*O"
Specifies the per-process timer to deallocate.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \*Lrmtimer(\|)\*O function is used to free a previously allocated
per-process timer (previously returned by the \*Lmktimer(\|)\*O
function).  Any pending per-process timer event generated by the timer
specified by the \*Vtimer_id\*O parameter is canceled when this function
successfully executes.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Trial use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the value 0 (zero) is returned.
Otherwise, the value -1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
If the \*Lrmtimer(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to the following value:
...\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vtimerid\*O parameter does not specify an allocated per-process timer.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lgettimer\*O(3),
\*Lmktimer\*O(3),
\*Lreltimer\*O(3)
.iX "rmtimer function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
