.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rpmatch.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/21 19:28:58 $
.\"
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH rpmatch 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lrpmatch\*O \- Determines whether a response is affirmative or negative
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <stdlib.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint rpmatch(
.nL
	const char *\*Vresponse\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 1i
.LI "\*Vresponse\*O"
User input entered in response to a question that requires
an affirmative or negative answer.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "rpmatch function"
The \*Lrpmatch(\|)\*O function determines whether the string value of the
\*Vresponse\*O parameter matches the affirmative or negative
response expression
as specified by the \*LLC_MESSAGES\*O category in the program's current
locale.  Both response expressions, defined in the locale,
may be extended regular expressions.
.PP
A possible value of the affirmative expression, \*Lyesexpr\*O, for a
English-language locale is \*L"^([yY]|[yY][eE][sS])"\*O.
This expression will match any value of
the \*Vresponse\*O parameter
that has consists of the letter Y (in uppercase or lowercase)
or the letters YES (in any mixture of uppercase and lowercase
letters).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example requests a response from the user and uses
the \*Lrpmatch(\|)\*O function to determine if the response is affirmative or
negative.
.PP
.oS
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <locale.h>
#include <string.h>
#define SLENGTH 80

main()
{
    char    str[SLENGTH], *eol;
    int    ans;

    (void)setlocale(LC_ALL, "");

    printf("Do you want to perform this operation: ");
    fgets(str, SLENGTH, stdin);
    if ((eol = strchr(str, '\en')) != NULL)
        *eol = '\e0';  /* Replace newline with null */
    else
        return;  /* Line entered too long */

    ans = rpmatch(str);
    if (ans == 1)
        printf("You responded affirmatively\en");
    else if (ans == 0)
        printf("You responded negatively\en");
    else
    	printf("Your answer did not match\en");
}
.oE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
A value of 1 is returned if the string value of the \*Vresponse\*O parameter is
matched by the affirmative expression; a value of 0 (zero) is returned if the
string value of the \*Vresponse\*O parameter is matched by the negative
expression. If neither expression matches the string value of the
\*Vresponse\*O parameter, a value of -1 is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lgrep\*O(1).
.PP
Functions: \*Lregcomp\*O(3), \*Lregexec\*O(3), \*Lsetlocale\*O(3).
.PP
Files: \*Llocale\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
