.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rresvport.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/20 17:26:05 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH rresvport 3
.SH NAME
\*Lrresvport\*O \- Retrieves a socket with a privileged address
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lint rresvport\*O (\*L
.PP 
	\*Lint *\*Vport \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vport"
\*OSpecifies the port to use for the connection.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "rresvport function"
.iX "socket" "retrieving"
.iX "retrieving sockets"
.iX "Internet ports"
.PP 
The \*Lrresvport(\|)\*O function obtains a socket with a privileged
address bound to the socket.  A \*Oprivileged \*OInternet port is one
that falls in the range of 0 to 1023.
.PP 
Only processes with an effective
user ID of root
can use the \*Lrresvport(\|)\*O function.  An authentication scheme
based on remote port numbers is used to verify permissions.
.PP 
If the connection succeeds, a socket in the
\*OInternet domain of type
SOCK_STREAM is returned
to the calling process.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the \*Lrresvport(\|)\*O function
returns a valid, bound socket descriptor.
Otherwise,
a value of -1 is returned
and
\*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the \*Lrresvport(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EAGAIN]"
All network ports are in use.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EAFNOSUPPORT]" 
The addresses in the specified address
family cannot be used with this socket.
.PP
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EMFILE]" 
Two hundred (200) file descriptors are currently
open.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENFILE]" 
The system file table is full.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "ENOBUFS" 
Insufficient buffers are available in the system
to complete the function.
.LE 
.SH FILES
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*L/etc/services"
\*OContains the service names.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lrcmd\*O(3),
\*Lruserok\*O(3)
.iX "rresvport function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
