.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ruserok.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/20 17:26:16 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH ruserok 3
.SH NAME
\*Lruserok\*O \-  Allows servers to authenticate clients
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lint ruserok\*O (\*L
.nL
	\*Lchar *\*Vhost\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vroot_user\*L,
.nL
	\*Lchar *\*Vremote_user\*L,
.nL
	char *\*Vlocal_user \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vhost"
\*OSpecifies the name of a remote host.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vroot_user" 
\*OSpecifies a value to indicate whether the effective user
ID of the calling process
is that of a root user.  A value of 0 (zero) indicates the process
does not have a root user ID.  A value of 1 indicates that the
process has local root user privileges, and the \*L/etc/host.equiv\*O
file is not checked.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vremote_user" 
\*OPoints
to a username that is valid at the remote host\*V.\*O  Any valid
username can be specified.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vlocal_user" 
\*OPoints to a username that is valid at the local host.  Any valid username
can be specified.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "ruserok function"
.iX "server" "authenticating clients"
.iX "authenticating clients for servers"
.iX "clients" "authenticating for servers"
.PP 
The \*Lruserok(\|)\*O (remote command user OK) function allows
servers to authenticate clients requesting services.
.PP 
The hostname must be specified.  If the local domain and remote domain
are the same, specifying the domain parts is optional.  To
determine the domain of the host, use the
\*Lgethostname(\|)\*O function.
The \*Lruserok(\|)\*O function checks
for this host in the \*L/etc/host.equiv\*O
file.  Then,
if necessary, the subroutine checks a file in the user's home directory
at the server called \*L$HOME/.rhosts\*O
for a host and remote user ID.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
The \*Lruserok(\|)\*O function returns 0 (zero) if the subroutine
successfully locates the name specified by the \*Vhost\*O parameter
in the \*L/etc/hosts.equiv\*O file or if the IDs specified by the \*Vhost\*O
and \*Vremote_user\*O parameters are found in the \*L$HOME/.rhosts\*O
file.
.PP 
If the name specified by the \*Vhost\*O parameter was not found,
the \*Lruserok(\|)\*O function returns a value of -1.
.SH FILES
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*L/etc/services"
\*OContains service names.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*L/etc/host.equiv" 
\*OSpecifies foreign hostnames.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*L$HOME/.rhosts" 
\*OSpecifies the remote users of a local user account.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lgethostname\*O(2),
\*Lrcmd\*O(3),
\*Lrresvport\*O(3),
\*Lsethostname\*O(2)
.PP 
Commands:
\*Lrlogind\*O(8),
\*Lrshd\*O(8)
.iX "ruserok function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
