.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: scandir.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/15 00:48:30 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH scandir 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lscandir\*O, \*Lalphasort\*O \- Scans or sorts directory contents
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.nL
#include <sys/dir.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint scandir (
.nL
	char *\*Vdir_name\*L,
.nL
	struct dirent * (*\*Vname_list\*L[ ]),
.nL
	int  (*\*Vselect\*L) ( void ),
.nL
	int  (*\*Vcompare\*L) ( void ) );
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint alphasort (
.nL
	struct dirent **\*Vdir1\*L,
.nL
	struct dirent **\*Vdir2 \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vdir_name"
\*OPoints to the directory name.
.LI "\*Vname_list"
\*OPoints to the array of pointers to directory
entries.
.LI "\*Vselect"
\*OPoints to a user-supplied function that is called
by the  \*Lscandir(\|)\*O function to select which entries to include
in the array.
.LI "\*Vcompare\*O"
Points to a user-supplied function that sorts
the completed array.
.LI "\*Vdir1"
\*OPoints to a \*Ldirent\*O structure.
.LI "\*Vdir2\*O"
\*OPoints to a \*Ldirent\*O structure.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "scandir function"
.iX "alphasort function"
.iX "directories" "sorting"
.iX "directories" "scanning"
.iX "sorting directory contents"
.iX "scanning directory contents"
The \*Lscandir(\|)\*O function reads the directory pointed to
by \*Othe \*Vdir_name\*O parameter.  It then uses the \*Lmalloc(\|)\*O
function to create an array of pointers to directory entries.
The \*Lscandir(\|)\*O function returns the number of entries in the
array and, through the \*Vname_list\*O parameter, a pointer to the
array.
.PP
The \*Vselect\*O parameter points to a user-supplied function
that the \*Lscandir(\|)\*O function calls to select which
entries to include in the array. The selection routine is passed a
pointer to a directory entry and returns a nonzero value for
a directory entry that is included in the array. If the \*Vselect\*O
parameter is a null value, all directory entries are included.
.PP
The \*Vcompare\*O parameter points to a user-supplied function
that is passed to the \*Lqsort(\|)\*O function to sort the
completed array. If the \*Vcompare\*O parameter is a null value,
the array is not sorted.
.PP
The memory allocated to the array can be deallocated by freeing
each pointer in the array, and the array itself, with the \*Lfree(\|)\*O
function.
.PP
The \*Lalphasort(\|)\*O function alphabetically compares the
two \*Ldirent\*O structures pointed to by the \*Vdir1\*O and \*Vdir2\*O
parameters. This function can be passed as the \*Vcompare\*O
parameter to either the \*Lscandir(\|)\*O function or the \*Lqsort(\|)\*O
function.  A user-supplied subroutine may also be used.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lscandir(\|)\*O function returns -1 if the directory
cannot be opened for reading or if the \*Lmalloc(\|)\*O function
cannot allocate enough memory to hold all the data structures. If
successful, the \*Lscandir(\|)\*O function returns the number of
entries found.
.PP
The \*Lalphasort(\|)\*O function returns the following values:
.\" bullet list under TP ! " 
.ML
.LI
\*OLess than 0 (zero): The \*Ldirent\*O structure pointed to by the
\*Vdir1\*O parameter is lexically less than the \*Ldirent\*O
structure pointed to by the \*Vdir2\*O parameter.
.\" bullet list under TP ! " 
.LI
\*O0 (zero): The \*Ldirent\*O structures pointed to by the \*Vdir1\*O
parameter and the \*Vdir2\*O parameter are equal.
.\" bullet list under TP ! " 
.LI
\*OGreater than 0 (zero): The \*Ldirent\*O structure pointed to by
the \*Vdir1\*O parameter is lexically greater than the \*Ldirent
\*Ostructure pointed to by the \*Vdir2\*O parameter.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lmalloc\*O(3),
\*Lopendir\*O(3),
\*Lqsort\*O(3)
.iX "scandir function"
.iX "alphasort function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
