.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: scanw.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/06 21:44:44 $
.\"
.TH scanw 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lscanw\*O, \*Lmvscanw\*O, \*Lmvwscanw\*O, \*Lwscanw\*O, \*Lvwscanw\*O \- Formatted read operation from a curses window
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
The \*Lcurses\*O library (\*Llibcurses.so\*O, \*Llibcurses.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint scanw( char \(**\*Vfmt \*O[\*L, \*Varg\*O] ... \*L);
.PP
\*Lint wscanw(
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L,
    char \(**\*Vfmt \*O[\*L, \*Varg\*O] ... \*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint mvscanw(
    int \*Vy\*L,
    int \*Vx\*L,
    char \(**\*Vfmt \*O[\*L, \*Varg\*O] ... \*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint mvwscanw(
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L,
    int \*Vy\*L,
    int \*Vx\*L,
    char \(**\*Vfmt \*O[\*L, \*Varg\*O] ... \*L);\*O
.PP
\*L#include <varargs.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint vwscanw(
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L,
    char \(**\*Vfmt\*L,
    va_list \*Vvarglist \*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vwin\*O"
Specifies a \*Lcurses\*O window. If not specified, the
window is the default window \*Lstdscr\*O.
.LI "\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O"
Specifies the line (\*Vy\*O) and column (\*Vx\*O)
coordinates of the target position on the window.
If coordinates are not specified, the target
position is the current position of the logical cursor.
.LI "\*Vfmt\*O"
Specifies a string combining literal characters
with conversion specifications.  Refer to the \*Lscanf\*O(3)
reference page for details about the format specification.
.LI "\*Varg\*O"
Specifies a location for storing interpreted data.
.LI "\*Vvarglist\*O"
Specifies a variable list of locations for storing interpreted data.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "scanw subroutine"
.iX "mvscanw subroutine"
.iX "mvwscanw subroutine"
.iX "wscanw subroutine"
.iX "vwscanw subroutine"
These routines correspond to \*Lscanf(\|)\*O.
.PP
The \*Lscanw\*O function reads input from the default window.
.PP
The \*Lwscanw\*O function reads input from window \*Vwin\*O.
.PP
The \*Lmvscanw\*O function moves the cursor to position
(\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O) and then reads input from the default window.
.PP
The \*Lmvwscanw\*O function moves the cursor to position
(\*Vy\*O, \*Vx\*O) and then reads input from window \*Vwin\*O.
.PP
For all functions, the routine \*Lwgetstr\*O is called to
get a string from the window, and the resulting line is used
as input for the scan.
All character interpretation is carried out according to the
\*Lscanf\*O function rules.
.PP
The function \*Lvwscanw\*O
reads input from window \*Vwin\*O by calling \*Lwscanw\*O using
the variable argument list \*Vvarglist\*O.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On successful completion, the \*Lscanw\*O, \*Lmvscanw\*O,
\*Lmvwscanw\*O, \*Lwscanw\*O, and \*Lvwscanw\*O functions return the number
of items successfully matched.  On end-of-file,
the functions return \*LEOF\*O.  Otherwise, they return \*LERR\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lcurses\*O(3), \*Lcurses_intro\*O(3), \*Lscanf\*O(3),
\*Lwgetstr\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
