.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sched_get_priority_max.3,v $ $Revision: 1.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/11/25 13:54:57 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)sched_get_priority_max.3  6.5 1/7/92
.TH sched_get_priority_max 3
.SH NAME
\*Lsched_get_priority_max\*O, \*Lsched_get_priority_min\*O \- Return the maximum or minimum priority for the specified scheduling policy (P1003.4/D11)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
#include \*L<sched.h>\*O
.PP
int \*Lsched_get_priority_max\*O (
.br
int \*Vpolicy\*O);
.PP
int \*Lsched_get_priority_min\*O (
.br
int \*Vpolicy\*O);
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 12
.I policy
One of the scheduling policies as defined in \*L<sched.h>\*O.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "sched_get_priority_max function"
.iX "sched_get_priority_min function"
.iX "priority scheduling" "getting priority limits"
The \*Lsched_get_priority_max\*O and \*Lsched_get_priority_min\*O
functions return
the maximum or minimum
priority for the specified scheduling policy. The value of the \*Vpolicy\*O
argument must be one of the scheduling policies (SCHED_FIFO, SCHED_RR, or
SCHED_OTHER), as defined in \*L<sched.h>\*O.
.PP
No special privileges are needed to use the \*Lsched_get_priority_max\*O
and \*Lsched_get_priority_min\*O functions.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On a successful call, the requested value is returned.
If a call fails to complete
successfully, a value of \-1 is returned, and \*Lerrno\*O is
set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The \*Lsched_get_priority_max\*O and \*Lsched_get_priority_min\*O functions
fail under the following conditions:
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The value of the \*Vpolicy\*O argument does not represent a defined
scheduling policy.
.TP 15
[ENOSYS]
The functions \*Lsched_get_priority_max\*O and \*Lsched_get_priority_min\*O
are not supported by this implementation.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lsched_getparam\*O(3), \*Lsched_getscheduler\*O(3),
\*Lsched_setparam\*O(3), \*Lsched_setscheduler\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
