.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sched_yield.3,v $ $Revision: 1.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/11/25 13:55:48 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)sched_yield.3 6.5 1/7/92
.TH sched_yield 3
.SH NAME
\*Lsched_yield\*O \- Yield execution to another process (P1003.4/D11)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
#include \*L<sched.h>\*O
.PP
void \*Lsched_yield\*O (
.br
\*Vvoid\*O);
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 12
.I void
The \*Lsched_yield\*O function takes no arguments.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "sched_yield function"
.iX "process" "yielding processes"
The \*Lsched_yield\*O function yields
execution to another process. It is useful when an application
running under the SCHED_FIFO scheduling policy needs to allow another
process at the same priority to run.
The process that was interrupted by \*Lsched_yield\*O goes
to the end of the queue for its priority.
The \*Lsched_yield\*O function takes no arguments, does not return any
value, and never generates an error.
.PP
If no other process is runnable at the priority of the caller, the caller
continues to run.
.PP
Note that processes with higher priority are allowed to preempt the
running process, so the \*Lsched_yield\*O function
has no effect on the scheduling of higher- or lower-priority
processes.
.PP
No special privileges are needed to use the \*Lsched_yield\*O function.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
No values are returned.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
No diagnostics are generated.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lsched_getscheduler\*O(3), \*Lsched_setscheduler\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
