.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sched_getparam.3,v $ $Revision: 1.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/11 16:51:10 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)sched_getparam.3 6.5 1/7/92
.TH sched_getparam 3
.SH NAME
\*Lsched_getparam\*O \- Return the scheduling parameters of the specified process (P1003.4/D11)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
#include \*L<sched.h>\*O
.PP
int \*Lsched_getparam\*O (
.br
pid_t \*Vpid\*O,
.br
struct \*Lsched_param\*O \*V*param\*O);
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 8
.I pid
The process identification of the process whose scheduling parameters are
returned. If \*Vpid\*O is zero, the scheduling parameters of the calling process
are returned.
.TP
.I *param
A pointer to a \*Lsched_param\*O structure, which contains the scheduling
parameters of the calling process. The value of the \*Vpriority\*O field is
the current priority of process specified by the \*Vpid\*O. The \*Lsched_param\*O
structure is defined in \*L<sched.h>\*O.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "sched_getparam function"
.iX "process" "getting scheduling priority"
.iX "priority scheduling" "getting parameters"
The
\*Lsched_getparam\*O
function returns the scheduling parameters of a process. If the \*Vpid\*O
is zero, the scheduling parameters are returned for the calling process.
.PP
Use the
\*L sched_setparam\*O
function to change the scheduling parameters.
.PP
Currently, the \*Lsched_param\*O structure contains only a priority field.
.PP
The priority of a process is inherited across \*Lfork\*O and
\*Lexec\*O calls.
.PP
No special privileges are needed to use the \*Lsched_getparam\*O
function.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On a successful call to the \*Lsched_getparam\*O function,
a value of 0 is returned. On an unsuccessful call,
a value of \-1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is
set to indicate that an error occurred and the specified priority
is unchanged.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The \*Lsched_getparam\*O function fails under the following conditions:
.TP 15
[ENOSYS]
The function \*Lsched_getparam\*O is not supported by this implementation.
.TP 15
[ESRCH]
No process can be found corresponding to that specified by \*Vpid\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetpid\*O(2), \*Lsched_getscheduler\*O(3), \*Lsched_setparam\*O(3),
\*Lsched_setscheduler\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
