.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sched_get_rr_interval.3,v $ $Revision: 1.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/11/25 13:55:05 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)sched_get_rr_interval.3  6.5 1/7/92
.TH sched_get_rr_interval 3
.SH NAME
\*Lsched_get_rr_interval\*O \- Return the current quantum for process execution under the SCHED_RR policy (P1003.4/D11)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
#include \*L<sched.h>\*O
.PP
int \*Lsched_get_rr_interval\*O (
.br
pid_t \*Vpid\*O,
.br
struct \*Ltimespec\*O \*V*min\*O);
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 12
.I pid
Specifies the process for which the quantum is returned.
.TP 12
.I *min
The current quantum for process execution under the SCHED_RR scheduling policy.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "sched_get_rr_interval function"
.iX "priority scheduling" "getting interval time"
The \*Lsched_get_rr_interval\*O function
returns the current quantum for process execution under
the SCHED_RR policy. If a process, running under the round-robin scheduling
policy, runs without blocking or yielding for more than this amount of time,
it may be preempted by another runnable process (at the same priority).
.PP
No special privileges are needed to use the \*Lsched_get_rr_interval\*O
function.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On a successful call, a value of 0 is returned. On an unsuccessful call,
a value of \-1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The \*Lsched_get_rr_interval\*O fails under the following conditions:
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The value of the \*Vpid\*O parameter does not indicate an existing process.
.TP 15
[ENOSYS]
The \*Lsched_get_rr_interval\*O function is not supported by this
implementation.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lsched_getparam\*O(3), \*Lsched_getscheduler\*O(3),
\*Lsched_setparam\*O(3), \*Lsched_setscheduler\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
