.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sched_setparam.3,v $ $Revision: 1.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/11/25 13:55:31 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)sched_setparam.3 6.5 1/7/92
.TH sched_setparam 3
.SH NAME
\*Lsched_setparam\*O \- Set the scheduling parameters of the  specified process (P1003.4/D11)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
#include \*L<sched.h>\*O
.PP
int \*Lsched_setparam\*O (
.br
pid_t \*Vpid\*O,
.br
struct \*Lsched_param\*O \*V*param\*O);
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 8
.I pid
The process identification of the process whose scheduling parameters are
set. If \*Vpid\*O is zero, the scheduling parameters of the calling process
are set.
.TP
.I *param
A pointer to a \*Lsched_param\*O structure, which contains the scheduling
parameters of the specified process.
Currently, the \*Lsched_param\*O structure contains only a priority field.
The value of the \*Vpriority\*O value is any
integer within the priority range for the current scheduling policy of the
process specified by \*Vpid\*O.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "sched_setparam function"
.iX "process" "setting scheduling priority"
.iX "priority scheduling" "setting parameters"
The \*Lsched_setparam\*O function changes the scheduling parameters
of a process. Setting
priorities such that the most critical process has the highest
priority allows
applications to determine more effectively when a process will run.
.PP
At runtime, a process starts out with an initial
priority of SCHED_PRIO_USER_MAX. A call to the \*Lsched_setparam\*O
function that raises the priority of a process, also raises the
maximum priority for the process. This higher maximum priority
exists for the life of the process or until the priority is set to
a new, higher priority through another call to the \*Lsched_setparam\*O
function. The maximum priority cannot be adjusted downward, but
subsequent calls to the \*Lsched_setparam\*O or
\*Lsched_setscheduler\*O functions
can specify that a process run at a lower priority.
.PP
You must have \*Lsuperuser\*O privileges to set the priority above the
user maximum, SCHED_PRIO_USER_MAX.
.PP
The
target process, whether it is running or not, resumes execution after all
other runnable processes of equal or greater priority are scheduled to run.
If the priority of the target process is set higher than that of the
calling process, and if the target process is ready to
run, then the target process will preempt the calling process. If the
calling process sets its own priority lower than some other
process, then the other process will preempt the calling process. In either
situation, the calling process might not receive notification of the
completion of the requested priority change until the target
process has executed.
.PP
The scheduling
parameters of the process as indicated by
.I pid
are obtained with a call to the \*Lsched_getparam\*O function.
.PP
The priority of a process is inherited across \*Lfork\*O and \*Lexec\*O calls.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On a successful call to the \*Lsched_setparam\*O
function, the scheduling parameters are set and
a value of 0 is returned. On an unsuccessful call,
a value of \-1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate that an error occurred and the priority
is unchanged.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The \*Lsched_setparam\*O function fails under the following conditions:
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
One or more of the requested scheduling parameters is outside the range defined
for the specified \*Vpid's\*O scheduling policy.
.TP 15
[ENOSYS]
The function \*Lsched_setparam\*O is not supported by this implementation.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The requesting process does not have the permission to set the scheduling
parameters for the specified process, nor does it have appropriate privilege
to invoke the \*Lsched_setparam\*O function.
.TP 15
[ESRCH]
No process can be found corresponding to that specified by \*Vpid\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetpid\*O(2), \*Lsched_getparam\*O(3), \*Lsched_getscheduler\*O(3),
\*Lsched_setscheduler\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
