.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sem_destroy.3,v $ $Revision: 1.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/11/25 13:56:05 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)sem_destroy.3     6.5 1/2/92
.TH sem_destroy 3
.SH NAME
\*Lsem_destroy\*O \- Remove or destroy a specified binary semaphore set  (P1003.4/D11)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
#include \*L<binsem.h>\*O
.PP
int \*Lsem_destroy\*O (
.br
const char \*V*name\*O);
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 8
.I *name
Points to the pathname of the binary semaphore set to be destroyed.
Use the \*Vname\*O argument originally supplied with the appropriate
\*Lsem_mksem\*O function.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lsem_destroy\*O function removes a link from a file, destroying
the binary semaphore set named by
\*Vname\*O. If the binary semaphore set is open when
a process calls the \*Lsem_destroy\*O function, the binary semaphore set
is not destroyed
until the last \*Lsem_close\*O function is complete. However, calls to
\*Lsem_open\*O after a call to the \*Lsem_destroy\*O function will fail.
.PP
.iX "sem_destroy function"
.iX "semaphores" "removing"
.iX "semaphores" "destroying"
The potential for deadlock exists if a process calls \*Lsem_destroy\*O
for a binary semaphore set while there is a pending \*Lsem_wait\*O,
because a process may be waiting for a poster which has not yet opened
the binary semaphore set.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On successful completion, the function returns the value 0;
otherwise, the function returns the value \-1 and sets \*Lerrno\*O to
indicate the error, without changing
the file named in the \*Vname\*O argument.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The \*Lsem_destroy\*O function will fail under the following conditions:
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The binary semaphore set does not exist.
.TP 15
[ENOSYS]
The function \*Lsem_destroy\*O is not supported by this implementation.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The process lacks the appropriate privilege to destroy the specified
binary semaphore set.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lfork\*O(2),
\*Lsem_close\*O(3),
\*Lsem_mksem\*O(3),
\*Lsem_open\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
