.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sem_close.3,v $ $Revision: 1.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/11/25 13:55:57 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)sem_close.3 6.5 1/2/92
.TH sem_close 3
.SH NAME
\*Lsem_close\*O \- Deallocate the specified binary semaphore set descriptor  (P1003.4/D11)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
#include \*L<binsem.h>\*O
.PP
int \*Lsem_close\*O (
.br
binsemset_t \*Vbinsemdes\*O) ;
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 10
.I binsemdes
The binary semaphore set descriptor.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "sem_close function"
.iX "binary semaphores" "closing"
The \*Lsem_close\*O
function makes a binary semaphore set descriptor available for reuse by
deallocating the binary semaphore set
descriptor indicated by the \*Vbinsemdes\*O argument.
.PP
When you close the last semaphore reference,
the current state of the binary semaphores in the set persists.
A subsequent call to the
\*Lsem_open\*O function  reopens the binary semaphore set.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On a successful call, a value of 0
is returned. Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate that an error occurred.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The  \*Lsem_close\*O
function fails under the following conditions:
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The \*Vbinsemdes\*O argument is not a valid binary
semaphore set descriptor.
.TP 15
[ENOSYS]
The function \*Lsem_close\*O is not supported by this implementation.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lsem_mksem\*O(3), \*Lsem_open\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
