.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sem_open.3,v $ $Revision: 1.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/12/22 23:08:18 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)sem_open.3   6.5   1/2/92
.TH sem_open 3
.SH NAME
\*Lsem_open\*O \- Open a set of binary semaphores (P1003.4/D11)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
#include \*L<binsem.h>\*O
.PP
binsemset_t \*Lsem_open\*O (
.br
const char \*V*name\*O,
.br
binsemset_t \*V*b\*O);
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 8
.I *name
Points to the pathname naming the binary semaphore set object.
Use the \*Vname\*O argument originally supplied with the
\*Lsem_mksem\*O function.
.TP
.I *b
On successful completion of the call, contains the binary semaphore set
descriptor.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "semaphores" "opening"
.iX "sem_open function"
Use the \*Lsem_open\*O function to establish the connection between a set
of binary semaphores created by the \*Lsem_mksem\*O function and a binary
semaphore set descriptor.  Subsequently, the calling process can reference all
the binary semaphores in the set by using the binary semaphore set descriptor
returned by the \*Lsem_open\*O function and the number, based at 0, of the binary
semaphore in the set.  Valid binary semaphore numbers range from
0 to \*Vn\*O\-1  inclusive for a set created with n binary semaphores.
The first time a process opens a binary semaphore set, the \*Lsem_open\*O
function allocates the binary semaphore set descriptor for the set.
The individual binary
semaphores are available in subsequent calls to \*Lsem_wait\*O,
\*Lsem_ifwait\*O, and \*Lsem_post\*O functions. The descriptor
is returned by subsequent calls to the \*Lsem_open\*O function until the
connection between the binary semaphore set name and the descriptor is
broken by a call to the \*Lsem_close\*O function.
.PP
If the binary semaphore set
is already open, the states of the semaphores in the set are unchanged.
.PP
If this is the first time the
binary semaphore set is opened, the semaphores in
the set are initialized to the state given the set when it was created by using
the \*Lsem_mksem\*O function.
.PP
Otherwise, the binary semaphores in the set have the same state they had
when last closed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On successful completion, this function opens the binary semaphore set,
returns a descriptor for the binary set, and 0.
Otherwise, the function returns \-1 and sets \*Lerrno\*O to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The \*Lsem_open\*O function fails under the following conditions:
.TP 20
[EFAULT]
The parameter \*Vb\*O was not a valid address.
.TP 20
[EINVAL]
Operation not supported for the given \*Vname\*O.
.TP 20
[ENAMETOOLONG]
The length of the null-terminated string \*Vname\*O exceeds SEM_NAME_MAX.
.TP 20
[ENOENT]
The binary semaphore set does not exist.
.TP 20
[ENOSPC]
A resource required to open the named binary semaphore set has been
exhausted.
.sp
The limit on open binary semaphore sets for this process (SEM_NSETS_MAX) has
been reached.
.TP 20
[ENOSYS]
The function \*Lsem_open\*O is not supported by this implementation.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The process lacks appropriate privileges to open the specified binary
semaphore set.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lsem_close\*O(3),
\*Lsem_ifwait\*O(3),
\*Lsem_post\*O(3),
\*Lsem_wait\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
