.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: setclock.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/10/14 12:35:09 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH setclock 3
.SH NAME
\*Lsetclock\*O \- Sets value of system-wide clock
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/timers.h\*O>\*L
.sp .4v
\*Lint setclock\*O(\*L
.wH .ti +0.2i
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vclktyp\*L,
.wH .ti +0.2i
.nL
	\*Lstruct timespec\*O *\*Vval\*O) ;\*L
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vclktyp\*O"
Specifies
a system-wide clock whose symbolic name must be TIMEOFDAY.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vval\*O" 
Points to the location where the value of the time to set into the
clock specified by the \*Vclktyp\*O parameter is stored.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "setclock function"
.iX "system clock" "setting"
.iX "setting system  clock"
.iX "clock" "setting value"
The \*Lsetclock(\|)\*O function sets a time value into
the system-wide clock whose symbolic name is specified by the
\*Vclktyp\*O parameter, which must be
TIMEOFDAY, defined in the
\*Lsys/timers.h\*O header file.
.PP
The source of the current value of time set into the system-wide
time-of-day clock by this function is stored in space reserved by a
type \*Ltimespec\*O structure pointed to by the \*Vval\*O parameter. This
time information is the amount of time since the epoch. The epoch is
referenced to 00:00:00 GMT (Greenwich Mean Time) 1 Jan 1970. The
\*Ltimespec\*O structure, which is also defined in the
\*Lsys/timers.h\*O header file has the following members:
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Corrected spelling of nanoseconds in table per QAR 6104.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.TS 
tab(@);
r r lw(3.70i).
\*Lunsigned long@tv_sec\*O@Time of day since the epoch in seconds.
\*Llong@tv_nsec@T{
\*OTime of day fraction of a second (expressed in nanoseconds).
T}
.TE
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Trial use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion,
the \*Lsetclock(\|)\*O function returns a value of 0 (zero).
Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If the \*Lsetclock(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vclktyp\*O parameter does not specify a known system-wide clock,
the information pointed to by the \*Vval\*O parameter is outside the
permissible range for the clock specified by the \*Vclktyp\*O
parameter, or a nanosecond value less than zero or greater than or
equal to 1000 million is specified by the information pointed to by
the \*Vval\*O parameter.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EIO]" 
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Corrected spelling of 'specified' per QAR 6104.
An error occurred while accessing the clock specified by the \*Vclktyp\*O
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
parameter.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EPERM]" 
The requesting process does not have the appropriate privilege to set
the clock specified by the \*Vclktyp\*O parameter.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lgetclock\*O(3),
\*Lgettimer\*O(3),
\*Ltime\*O(3)
.iX "setclock function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
