.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: setjmp.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/20 02:11:57 $
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH setjmp 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsetjmp\*O, \*L_setjmp\*O, \*Llongjmp\*O, \*L_longjmp\*O \- Saves and restores the current execution context
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library  (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <setjmp.h>
.sp .4v
int setjmp (
.nL
	jmp_buf \*Venvironment \*L);\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lvoid longjmp (
.nL
	jmp_buf \*Venvironment\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vvalue \*L);\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint _setjmp (
.nL
	jmp_buf \*Venvironment \*L);\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lvoid _longjmp (
.nL
	jmp_buf \*Venvironment\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vvalue \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Venvironment"
\*OSpecifies an address for a
\*Ljmp_buf\*O
structure.
.LI "\*Vvalue"
\*OSpecifies any nonzero value.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "setjmp function"
.iX "longjmp function"
.iX "execution context" "saving and restoring"
.iX "saving execution context"
.iX "restoring execution context"
.iX "context, execution" "saving and restoring"
The \*Lsetjmp(\|)\*O and \*Llongjmp(\|)\*O functions
are useful when handling errors and interrupts encountered in low-level
functions of a program.
.PP
The \*Lsetjmp(\|)\*O function saves the current stack context
and signal mask in the buffer specified by the \*Venvironment\*O parameter.
.PP
The \*Llongjmp(\|)\*O function restores the stack context and
signal mask that were saved by the \*Lsetjmp(\|)\*O function in the
corresponding \*Venvironment\*O buffer. After the \*Llongjmp(\|)\*O
function runs, program execution continues as if the corresponding
call to the \*Lsetjmp(\|)\*O function had just returned the value
of the \*Vvalue\*O parameter. The function that called the \*Lsetjmp(\|)\*O
function must not have returned before the completion of the \*Llongjmp(\|)\*O
function. The \*Lsetjmp(\|)\*O function and the \*Llongjmp(\|)\*O
function save and restore the signal mask,
while \*L_setjmp(\|)\*O and \*L_longjmp(\|)\*O manipulate only the stack
context.
.PP
As it bypasses the usual function call and return mechanisms,
the
\*Llongjmp(\|)\*O
function executes correctly in contexts of interrupts,
signals, and any of their associated functions.
However, if the
\*Llongjmp(\|)\*O
function is invoked from a nested signal handler (that is, from a
function invoked as a result of a signal raised during the
handling of another signal), the behavior is undefined.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The reentrant versions of the
\*Lsetjmp(\|)\*O
and
\*Llongjmp(\|)\*O
functions are identical in behavior to the
\*L_setjmp(\|)\*O
and
\*L_longjmp(\|)\*O
.PP
The
System V versions of the
\*Lsetjmp(\|)\*O
and
\*Llongjmp(\|)\*O
functions, which are equivalent to
\*L_setjmp(\|)\*O
and
\*L_longjmp(\|)\*O
respectively, are also supported for compatibility.
To use the System V versions
of
\*Lsetjmp(\|)\*O
and
\*Llongjmp(\|)\*O,
you must link with the
\*Llibsys5\*O
library before you link with
\*Llibc\*O.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH CAUTION
.PP
If the \*Llongjmp(\|)\*O function is called
with an \*Venvironment\*O parameter that was not previously set by the
\*Lsetjmp(\|)\*O function, or if the function that made the corresponding
call to the \*Lsetjmp(\|)\*O function has already returned, then
the results of the \*Llongjmp(\|)\*O function are undefined. If the
\*Llongjmp(\|)\*O function detects such a
condition, it calls the \*Llongjmperror(\|)\*O
function. If \*Llongjmperror(\|)\*O returns, the program is aborted.
The default version of \*Llongjmperror(\|)\*O prints an error message
to standard error and returns. Users that want to exit more gracefully
can write their own versions of the \*Llongjmperror(\|)\*O program.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lsetjmp(\|)\*O function returns a value of 0 (zero), unless the
return is from a call to the \*Llongjmp(\|)\*O function, in which case \*Lsetjmp(\|)\*O
returns a nonzero value.
.PP
The \*Llongjmp(\|)\*O function cannot return 0 (zero) to the previous
context. The value 0 is reserved to indicate the actual return from
the \*Lsetjmp(\|)\*O function when first called by the program. If
the \*Llongjmp(\|)\*O function is passed a \*Vvalue\*O parameter
of 0, then execution continues as if the corresponding call to the
\*Lsetjmp(\|)\*O function had returned a value of 1. All accessible data
have values as of the time the \*Llongjmp(\|)\*O function is called.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lsiglongjmp\*O(3),
\*Lsigsetjmp\*O(3)
.iX "setjmp function"
.iX "longjmp function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
