.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: setlocale.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 16:34:46 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.\"
.TH setlocale 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsetlocale\*O \- Changes or queries the program's current locale
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <locale.h>
.PP
\*Lchar *setlocale(
.nL
        int \*Vcategory\*L,
.nL
        const char *\*Vlocale\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vcategory\*O"
Specifies the category of the locale to set or query. The category
can be \*LLC_ALL\*O, \*LLC_COLLATE\*O, \*LLC_CTYPE\*O,
\*LLC_MESSAGES\*O,
.if t .br
\*LLC_MONETARY\*O, \*LLC_NUMERIC\*O, or \*LLC_TIME\*O.
.LI "\*Vlocale\*O"
Points to a string that specifies the locale.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "setlocale function"
.iX "locale" "setting and querying in program"
.iX "querying locale"
.iX "setting locale"
The \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O function sets or queries the appropriate portion
of the program's locale as specified by the \*Vcategory\*O and \*Vlocale\*O
parameters.
The \*LLC_ALL\*O value for the \*Vcategory\*O parameter names
the entire locale; the other values name only a portion of the program
locale, as follows:
.VL
.LI "\*LLC_COLLATE\*O"
Affects the behavior of collation functions and regular expressions.
.LI "\*LLC_CTYPE\*O"
Affects the behavior of character classification functions, character
conversion functions, and regular expressions.
.LI "\*LLC_MESSAGES\*O"
Affects the language used to display application program and utilities
messages (when translations of the messages are available) and the
strings expected as affirmative and negative responses.
.LI "\*LLC_MONETARY\*O"
Affects the behavior of functions that handle monetary values.
.LI "\*LLC_NUMERIC\*O"
Affects the radix
character for the formatted input/output functions and the string
conversion functions.
.LI "\*LLC_TIME\*O"
Affects the behavior of the time conversion functions.
.LE
.PP
The behavior of the language information function defined in the
\*Lnl_langinfo(\|)\*O function is also affected by settings of the
\*Vcategory\*O parameter.
.PP
The \*Vlocale\*O parameter points to a character string
that identifies the locale that is to be used to set the
\*Vcategory\*O parameter.  The
\*Vlocale\*O parameter can specify either the name of a locale, such
as \*Lfr_CA.ISO8859-1\*O, or one of the following:
.VL
.LI "\*LC\*O"
Specifies the minimal environment for C-language translation.
If \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O
is not invoked, the C locale is the default.
Operational behavior within the C locale is defined
separately for each interface function that is affected by the locale
string.
.LI "\*LPOSIX\*O"
Equivalent to \*LC\*O.
.LI "\*L""""\|""""\*O"
Specifies that the locale should be set based on the user's current
values for the locale environment variables.
.LI "\*LNULL\*O"
Used to direct \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O to query the current internationalized
environment and return the name of the
\*Vlocale\*O; does not change the locale.
.LE
.PP
If the \*Vlocale\*O parameter is set to the empty string (\*L"\|"\*O),
\*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O checks the user's environment variables in the
following order:
.AL
.LI
First it checks the value of the \*LLC_ALL\*O environment variable.
If it is set,
\*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O
sets the specified category of the international environment to
that value and returns the string corresponding to the locale set (that
is, the value of the environment variable, not "\|", the null string).
.LI
If the environment variable \*LLC_ALL\*O is not set or is set to the
empty string, \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O next checks
the corresponding environment variable for the category specified or
for all categories, if the value of the \*Lcategory\*O parameter
is \*LLC_ALL\*O. If the environment variable for the category is set,
\*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O
sets the specified category of the international environment to
that value.
.LI
If the environment variable corresponding to the specified category is
not set or is set to the empty string,
then \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O checks the \*LLANG\*O environment variable.
If the \*LLANG\*O environment variable is set,
then \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O sets the
category to the locale specified by the \*LLANG\*O environment
variable.
.LI
Lastly, if the \*LLANG\*O environment variable is not set or is set to
the empty string, the \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O function sets the category
to the C locale.
.\" Commented out following text...C IS the default for DEC OSF/1
.\" (this default may be different on your version of OSF/1).
.LE
.PP
If the \*Llocale\*O parameter is the null pointer, the
\*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O function returns the name of the program's locale
for the specified category and does not change the international
environment.
.PP
If the locale specified by the \*Vlocale\*O parameter or by the
environment variable is invalid, \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O
returns a null pointer and does not change the international environment.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
The following example
sets all categories in the international
environment based on the user's environment variables.
.IP
.oS
(void)setlocale (LC_ALL, "");
.oE
.IP
To satisfy this request, the \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O function
first checks all the environment variables.  If any environment
variable is invalid, \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O
returns a null pointer and the international environment is not
changed by this function call.  If all the relevant environment
variables are valid, \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O
sets the international environment to reflect the values of the
environment variables.
.LI
The following example sets a specific category in the international
environment to an explicit locale.
.IP
.oS
(void)setlocale(LC_MESSAGES,"fr_FR.ISO8859-1");
.oE
.LI
The following subroutine queries and saves the existing international
environment, then explicitly sets the locale to the C locale,
performs some operations in the C locale, and
finally, restores the locale to the saved environment. The main program
typically uses \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O to set the international
environment to the locale specified by the user's environment program.
If a subroutine needs to execute in a specific locale, the
subroutine must save and restore the international environment.
.IP
.oS
#include <locale.h>
#include <string.h>

void Do_stuff(void)
{
	char	*test_l, *saved_l;

	test_l=setlocale(LC_ALL,NULL);
	saved_l=strdup(test_l);

	test_l=setlocale(LC_ALL,"C");
	/* Perform operations in the C locale */

	/* Restore the original locale */
	test_l=setlocale(LC_ALL,saved_l);
	return;
}
.oE
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O function is not threadsafe, and does not have
any threadsafe equivalent.  This means that the \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O
function should be called only in the main part of a program,
before any threads are created.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use (\*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O).
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If the \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O function succeeds in setting the program's
locale to the one specified by the \*Vlocale\*O parameter, the function
returns the string associated with the specified \*Vcategory\*O
parameter for the new locale.  Note that the \*Vlocale\*O parameter
can specify the locale name explicitly or, if \*Vlocale\*O is a null string,
the locale is specified by the value of the
corresponding environment variable.
If the \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O function cannot set the program's locale as
requested, the function returns a null pointer and leaves the program's locale
unchanged.
.PP
If the \*Vcategory\*O parameter has a value of \*LLC_ALL\*O, the
return value is a series of locale names separated by spaces. The
locale names correspond to the categories in the following order:
.ML
.LI
\*LLC_COLLATE\*O
.LI
\*LLC_CTYPE\*O
.LI
\*LLC_MONETARY\*O
.LI
\*LLC_NUMERIC\*O
.LI
\*LLC_TIME\*O
.LI
\*LLC_MESSAGES\*O
.LE
.PP
If the \*Vlocale\*O parameter is a null pointer,
the \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O function returns the string associated
with the \*Vcategory\*O parameter for the program's current locale,
and leaves the program's locale unchanged.
.PP
The string returned by the \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O function is such
that a subsequent call with that string and its associated \*Vcategory\*O
restores that part of the program's locale.  The string returned must
not be modified by the program, but is overwritten by a subsequent
call to the \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O function.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Latof\*O(3),
\*Lcatgets\*O(3),
\*Lcatopen\*O(3),
\*Lctype\*O(3),
\*Llocaleconv\*O(3),
\*Lnl_langinfo\*O(3),
\*Lprintf\*O(3),
\*Lscanf\*O(3),
\*Lstrfmon\*O(3),
\*Lstrftime\*O(3),
\*Lstring\*O(3),
\*Lwctype\*O(3).
.PP
Files:
\*Llocale\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
