.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: setnetent.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/20 02:14:14 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH setnetent 3
.SH NAME
\*Lsetnetent\*O, \*Lsetnetent_r\*O, \*Lendnetent\*O, \*Lendnetent_r\*O \- Opens, rewinds, or closes the networks file
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <netdb.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint setnetent\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vstay_open\*L);
.sp .4v
\*Lint setnetent_r\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vstay_open\*L,
.nL
	\*Lstruct netent_data *\*Vnet_data\*L);
.sp .4v
\*Lvoid endnetent(void);
.sp .4v
\*Lvoid endnetent_r(
.nL
	\*Lstruct netent_data *\*Vnet_data\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.\"from TP "  
.VL
.LI "\*Vstay_open"
\*OSpecifies a value that indicates when to close the networks file.
Specifying a value of 0 (zero) closes the networks file after
each call to the \*Lgetnetent(\|)\*O function.  Specifying a nonzero
value leaves the \*L/etc/networks\*O
file open after each call.
.LI "\*Vnet_data\*O"
Points at a structure where \*Lsetnetent_r(\|)\*O and
\*Lendnetent_r(\|)\*O store
information about the networks file.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "setnetent function"
.iX "setnetent_r function"
.iX "endnetent function"
.iX "endnetent_r function"
.iX "network file" "opening and rewinding"
.iX "opening a network file"
.iX "rewinding a network file"
.iX "file, network" "opening and rewinding"
.iX "networks file" "closing"
.PP
The \*Lsetnetent(\|)\*O (set network entry) function opens the
\*L/etc/networks\*O file and
sets the file marker at the beginning of the file.
.PP
The \*Lsetnetent_r(\|)\*O function is the reentrant version of the
\*Lsetnetent(\|)\*O function.  Note that when you first call the
\*Lsetnetent_r(\|)\*O function, you must set to NULL the
\*Lnet_fp\*O
field of the \*Lnetent_data\*O structure.
The
\*Lnetdb.h\*O header file defines the
\*Lnetent_data\*O structure.
.PP
The \*Lendnetent(\|)\*O function closes the \*L/etc/networks
\*Ofile, previously opened with
the \*Lgetnetent(\|), getnetbyaddr(\|), setnetent(\|)\*O, or\*L
getnetbyname(\|) \*Ofunction.
.PP
The \*Lendnetent_r(\|)\*O function is the reentrant version of the
\*Lendnetent(\|)\*O function.  The
\*Lnetdb.h\*O header file defines the \*Lnetent_data\*O structure.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note.
.PP
The system searches either the local \*L/etc/networks\*O file or the
NIS distributed networks file for the requested information.
To determine which file or files to search, and
in which order, the system uses the switches in the \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O file.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH NOTES
.PP
If the \*Lsetnetent(\|)\*O function is called with a non-zero
\*Vstay_open\*O parameter, the connection remains until the
\*Lendnetent(\|)\*O or \*Lexit(\|)\*O functions are called.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lsetnetent(\|)\*O function returns a
value of 1.  Otherwise, it returns a value of 0 (zero).
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lsetnetent_r(\|)\*O function returns
a value of 0 (zero).  Otherwise, it returns a value of -1.
.PP
The \*Lendnetent(\|)\*O and \*Lendnetent_r(\|)\*O functions do not
return a value.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occurs, the \*Lsetnetent_r(\|)\*O
function sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.VL
.LI "[EINVAL]"
If \*Vnet_data\*O is invalid.
.LE
.PP
In addition, the \*Lsetnetent(\|)\*O and \*Lsetnetent_r(\|)\*O
functions can fail
to open the file.  In this case, \*Lerrno\*O will be set to the
appropriate value.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/networks"
\*OThis file is the DARPA Internet network name database file. Each record
in the file occupies a single line and has three fields: the
official network name, the network number, and alias.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetnetbyaddr\*O(3),
\*Lgetnetbyname\*O(3),
\*Lgetnetent\*O(3).
.iX "setnetent function"
.iX "setnetent_r function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
