.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: setrgid.3,v $ $Revision: 3.5.7.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/15 01:00:37 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"
.TH setrgid 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsetrgid\*O, \*Lsetegid\*O \- Set the process's group IDs
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint setrgid(
.nL
	gid_t \*Vrgid\*L);\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint setegid (
.nL
	gid_t \*Vegid\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vrgid"
\*OSpecifies the value of the real group ID to be set.
.LI "\*Vegid"
\*OSpecifies the value of the effective group ID to
be set.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "setrgid function"
.iX "setegid function"
.iX "process" "setting group ID"
.iX "setting group ID"
.iX "group ID" "setting"
The
\*Lsetegid(\|)\*O
function sets the process's effective group ID to the value of the
\*Vegid\*O
parameter
if the \*Vegid\*O parameter
is equal to the current real, effective, or saved group ID.
.PP
The
\*Lsetrgid(\|)\*O
function
sets the process's real group ID to the value of the
\*Vrgid\*O
parameter.
.PP
Only the superuser may
change the real or effective group ID to a value other
than the current real or saved group ID of the process.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lsetegid(\|)\*O and
\*Lsetrgid(\|)\*O
functions return
a value of 0 (zero).  If either function fails, a value of
-1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate
the error.
.PP
.SH ERRORS
.PP
\*OIf the \*Lsetrgid(\|)\*O or
\*Lsetegid(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
is set to one of the following values:
.VL 1i
.LI "[EPERM]"
The \*Vrgid\*O or \*Vegid\*O parameter is
not equal to either the real or saved group IDs of the process and
the calling process does not have superuser
privilege.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetgroups\*O(2),
\*Lsetgroups\*O(2),
\*Lsetregid\*O(2).
.PP
Commands:
.\" Digital Specific change for V1.3  setgroups(1) --> gruops(1)   -  dms
\*Lgroups\*O(1).
.iX "setrgid function"
.iX "setegid function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
