.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: setruid.3,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/15 01:06:25 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"
.TH setruid 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsetruid\*O, \*Lseteuid\*O \- Set the process's user IDs
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint setruid(
.nL
	uid_t \*Vruid\*L);\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint seteuid(
.nL
	uid_t \*Veuid\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Veuid"
\*OSpecifies the effective user ID to set.
.LI "\*Vruid"
\*OSpecifies the real user ID to set.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "setruid function"
.iX "seteuid function"
.iX "process" "setting user ID"
.iX "setting user ID"
.iX "user ID" "setting"
The
\*Lsetruid(\|)\*O
and
\*Lseteuid(\|)\*O
functions reset the process's real and effective user IDs,
respectively.
.PP
A process with
superuser
privilege can set either ID to any value.
An unprivileged process can only set the effective user ID if the
\*Veuid\*O
parameter
is equal to either the real, effective, or saved user ID of the
process.  An unprivileged process cannot set the real user ID.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lseteuid(\|)\*O and \*Lsetruid(\|)\*Ofunctions return a value of 0 (zero).
Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is
set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lseteuid(\|)\*O or \*Lsetruid(\|)\*Ofunction fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
is set to the following value:
.VL 1i
.LI "[EPERM]"
The \*Veuid\*O parameter is
not equal to either the real or saved user IDs of the process and
the calling process does not have appropriate
privilege.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgetuid\*O(2),
\*Lsetreuid\*O(2).
.iX "setruid function"
.iX "seteuid function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
