.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: setservent.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/15 01:15:32 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH setservent 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsetservent\*O, \*Lsetservent_r\*O \- Open or rewind the services file
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <netdb.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint setservent\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vstay_open\*L);
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint setservent_r\*O(\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vstay_open\*L,
.nL
	struct servent_data *\*Vserv_data\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vstay_open"
\*OIndicates when to close the services file.  Specifying a value of 0
(zero) closes the file after each call
to the \*Lgetservent(\|)\*O function.  Specifying a nonzero value
allows the file to remain open after
each call.
.LI "\*Vserv_data\*O"
Points to a structure where \*Lsetservent_r(\|)\*O stores
information about the services file.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "setservent function"
.iX "setservent_r function"
.iX "service file entry"
.iX "getting service file entries"
The \*Lsetservent(\|)\*O (set service entry) function opens the
\*L/etc/services\*O file and
sets the file marker at the beginning of the file.
.PP
The \*Lsetservent_r(\|)\*O function is the reentrant version of the
\*Lsetservent(\|)\*O function.  Note that before calling the
\*Lsetservent_r(\|)\*O function for the first time, you must
zero-fill the \*Lservent_data\*O structure.
The
\*Lnetdb.h\*O header file defines the
\*Lservent_data\*O structure.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note.
.PP
The system searches either the local \*L/etc/services\*O file or the
NIS distributed networks file for the requested information.
To determine which file or files to search, and
in which order, the system uses the switches in the \*L/etc/svc.conf\*O file.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lsetservent(\|)\*O function returns
a 1 for success.  Otherwise, it returns a value of 0 (zero).
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lsetservent_r(\|)\*O function
returns a value of 0 (zero).  Otherwise, it returns a value of -1.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occurs, the \*Lsetservent_r(\|)\*O
function sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.VL
.LI "EINVAL"
If \*Vserv_data\*O is invalid.
.LE
.PP
In addition, the \*Lsetservent(\|)\*O and \*Lsetservent_r(\|)\*O
functions can fail
to open the file.  In this case, \*Lerrno\*O will be set to the failure.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/services"
\*OContains service names.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lendservent\*O(3),
\*Lgetservbyname\*O(3),
\*Lgetservbyport\*O(3),
\*Lgetservent\*O(3).
.iX "setservent function"
.iX "setservent_r function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
