.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: setscrreg.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/15 22:36:30 $
.\"
.TH setscrreg 3
.SH NAME
\*Lsetscrreg\*O, \*Lwsetscrreg\*O \- Sets the scrolling region
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O

\*Lint setscrreg(\*Vtop\*L, \*Vbot\*L)
    int \*Vtop\*L, \*Vbot\*L;\*O

\*Lint wsetscrreg(\*Vwin\*L, \*Vtop\*L, \*Vbot\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L;
    int \*Vtop\*L, \*Vbot\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "setscrreg subroutine"
.iX "wsetscrreg subroutine"
The \*Lsetscrreg\*O routine sets the scrolling region
for the default window.
.PP
The \*Lwsetscrreg\*O routine sets the scrolling region
for the named window.
Use these routines to set a software scrolling region
in a window.
.PP
For both routines, the line numbers of the top and bottom
margins of the scrolling region are contained in
\*Ltop\*O and \*Lbot\*O.  Line 0 is the top line of the window.
.PP
If this option and \*Lscrollok\*O are enabled, an attempt
to move off the bottom margin line will cause all
lines in the scrolling region to scroll up one line.
Only the text of the window is scrolled.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
No return values are defined for these functions.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lscrollok\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
