.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: shm_open.3,v $ $Revision: 1.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/11 16:51:47 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)shm_open.3     6.5 1/2/92
.TH shm_open 3
.SH NAME
\*Lshm_open\*O \- Open a shared memory object, creating the object if necessary (P1003.4/D11)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
#include \*L<sys/mman.h>\*O
.PP
int \*Lshm_open\*O (
.br
const char \*V*path\*O,
.br
int \*Voflag\*O,
.br
mode_t \*Vmode\*O);
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 8
.I *path
Points to a pathname naming the shared memory object.
.TP
.I oflag
Specifies flags that define file status and file access modes.
This argument is constructed from the bitwise inclusive OR of zero or more of
the flags defined in the \*L<fcntl.h>\*O header file.
.TP
.I mode
Specifies the shared memory object's permission bits.
This argument is used only when the shared memory object is created.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "shm_open function"
.iX "shared memory" "opening"
The \*Lshm_open\*O function establishes a connection between a shared
memory object and a file descriptor. This file descriptor is used by other
functions to refer to the shared memory object. The \*Vpath\*O points to a
pathname  naming the shared memory object.
.PP
Once a shared memory object is created, its state and all data associated
with it persist until the shared memory is unlinked.
.PP
The \*Lshm_open\*O function returns a file descriptor that is the lowest
file descriptor not currently open for that process.
File status flags and access modes are set according to the \*Voflag\*O
argument. These flags are defined in the \*L<fcntl.h>\*O header file
and can have zero or more of the following values:
.RS 3
.IP \(bu 5
O_RDONLY \- Open for read access only.
.IP \(bu
O_RDWR \- Open for read or write access.
.IP \(bu
O_CREAT \- Create the shared memory if the memory object does not
exist already.  The user ID and group ID of the shared memory object are
identical to those of the calling process.  The shared memory object's
permission bits are set to
the value of \*Vmode\*O, except those set in the file mode creation mask
of the process.
.IP \(bu
O_EXCL \- Prevent the opening of a shared memory object if O_CREAT is
set and the shared memory object already exists.  Use this flag only in
combination with O_CREAT.
.IP \(bu
O_TRUNC \- Truncate the shared memory object to zero length if it is
successfully opened for read or write access (O_RDWR).
.RE
.PP
The initial contents of the shared memory object are binary zeros.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On a successful call to \*Lshm_open\*O a nonnegative integer is returned that
represents the lowest numbered unused file descriptor.  The file descriptor
points to the shared memory object.
Otherwise, \-1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The \*Lshm_open\*O function fails under the following conditions:
.TP 20
[EACCES]
Permission to create the shared memory object is denied.
The shared memory object exists and the permissions specified by \*Voflag\*O
are denied. O_TRUNC is specified and write permission is denied.
.TP 20
[EEXIST]
O_CREAT and O_EXCL are set, but the named shared memory object
already exists.
.TP 20
[EINTR]
A signal has interrupted the \*Lshm_open\*O operation.
.TP 20
[EMFILE]
Too many file descriptors are currently in use by this process.
.TP 20
[ENAMETOOLONG]
The length of the \*Vpath\*O argument exceeds
PATH_MAX, or a pathname component is longer than NAME_MAX while
_POSIX_NO_TRUNC is in effect.
.TP 20
[ENFILE]
Too many shared memory objects are currently open in the system.
.TP 20
[ENOENT]
O_CREAT is not set and the named shared memory object does not
exist, or O_CREAT is set and the \*Vpath\*O argument points to an empty
string.
.TP 20
[ENOSPC]
Memory space for creation of the new shared memory object is
insufficient.
.TP 20
[ENOSYS]
The function \*Lshm_open\*O is not supported by this implementation.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lclose\*O(2), \*Ldup\*O(2), \*Lexec\*O(2), \*Lfcntl\*O(2), \*Lfstat\*O(2),
\*Lmmap\*O(2), \*Lumask\*O(2), \*Lshm_unlink\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
