.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: shm_unlink.3,v $ $Revision: 1.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/11 16:51:59 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)shm_unlink.3     6.5 1/2/92
.TH shm_unlink 3
.SH NAME
\*Lshm_unlink\*O \- Remove a shared memory object created by a call to the  shm_open function (P1003.4/D11)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
#include \*L<sys/mman.h>\*O
.PP
int \*Lshm_unlink\*O (
.br
const char \*V*path\*O);
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 8
.I *path
Points to a pathname naming the shared memory object.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "shm_unlink function"
.iX "shared memory" "removing"
The \*Lshm_unlink\*O function removes the name of the shared
memory object pointed to by \*Vpath\*O.
If this file descriptor is used by other
functions, all references to the shared memory object are removed, but
content removal is delayed until all open and mapped references to the shared
memory object are removed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On a successful call to the \*Lshm_unlink\*O function, a zero is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The \*Lshm_unlink\*O function fails under the following conditions:
.TP 20
[EACCES]
Permission to unlink the shared memory object is denied.
.TP 20
[ENAMETOOLONG]
The length of the \*Vpath\*O argument exceeds
PATH_MAX, or a pathname component is longer than NAME_MAX while
_POSIX_NO_TRUNC is in effect.
.TP 20
[ENOENT]
The shared memory object does not exist, or the \*Vpath\*O argument points to an empty
string.
.TP 20
[ENOSYS]
The function \*Lshm_unlink\*O is not supported by this implementation.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lclose\*O(2),
\*Lmmap\*O(2), \*Lmunmap\*O(2), \*Lshm_open\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
