.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sia_ses_init.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:21:30 $
.\"
.\" From spider@web.zk3.dec.com Wed Dec 15 16:53:47 1993
.TH sia_ses_init 3
.SH NAME
.PP
sia_ses_init, sia_ses_reauthent, sia_ses_release \- SIA session routines (Enhanced Security)
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C library (\*Llibc.so\*O and \*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L#include <sia.h>\*O
.br
\*L#include <siad.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint sia_ses_init(
.br
	SIAENTITY ** \*Ventityhdl\*L,
.br
	int \*Vargc\*L, char **\*Vargv\*L,
.br
	char *\*Vhostname\*L,
.br
	char *\*Vusername\*L,
.br
	char *\*Vttyname\*L,
.br
	int \*Vcan_collect\*L,
.br
	char *\*Vgssapi\*L);
.PP
\*Lint sia_ses_reauthent(
.br
	int (*\*Vcollect\*L)(),
.br
	SIAENTITY *\*Ventityhdl\*L);
.PP
\*Lint sia_ses_release(
.br
	SIAENTITY **\*Ventityhdl\*L);\*O
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.IP "\*Vargc\*O and \*Vargv\*O" 10
The \*Vargc\*O and \*Vargv\*O parameters are used by the
underlying security mechanisms
for things like generating audit records
and initializing database accesses.
There should always be at least one argument
\*Vargv[0]\*O which contains the name of the
command or utility issuing a session initialization.
.IP "\*Vhostname\*O"
The \*Vhostname\*O parameter is used to determine if
the session is being requested by a remote system.
The \*Vhostname\*O parameter is set to
point to the string representing the requesting host. If the host is
local, this parameter is set to NULL.
.IP "\*Vusername\*O"
The \*Vusername\*O parameter is be set to point to the name or
string representing
the requesting user if this information is available.
Otherwise this parameter is set to NULL.
.IP "\*Vttyname\*O"
The \*Vttyname\*O parameter is set to point to
the name or string representing the requesting or
active tty if this information is available.
Otherwise
this parameter is set to NULL.
.IP "\*Vcan_collect\*O"
The \*Vcan_collect\*O parameter specifies whether the
collection of input is
allowed during this session. A "1" means yes and "0" means no.
.IP "\*Vgssapi\*O"
The \*Vgssapi\*O pointer is for future
expansion to utilize \*Vgss_api\*O
datatypes. It is not currently used and
should be set to NULL.
.IP "\*Vcollect\*O"
The \*Vcollect\*O parameter is a pointer to an SIA collection routine.
If this pointer is NULL, no collection is possible.
If the pointer is not NULL and the \*Vcan_collect\*O parameter
entered during the \*Lsia_ses_init()\*O
call was zero, then this collection routine cannot be used to prompt
for input but can be used to display warnings or error messages.
Further input on SIA collection routines is available from the interface
specifications in \*L/usr/include/{sia,siad}.h\*O.
.IP "\*Ventityhdl\*O"
The \*Ventityhdl\*O parameter points to the SIAENTITY structure that was
allocated and setup by the previous \*Lsia_ses_init()\*O call.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "sia_ses_init()"
.iX "sia_ses_reauthent()"
.iX "sia_ses_release()"
.iX "SIA session routines"
The
\*Lsia_ses_init()\*O routine initializes SIA sessions.
The routine allocates an entity handle structure and
initializes various values in that structure.
It must be called before any of the other SIA session processing
routines.
.PP
The \*Lsia_ses_reauthent()\*O routine is used to
revalidate a user's password.
It is associated
with applications that require that the user be reauthenticated.
Such applications are the typical terminal or session locking applications.
This call must be preceded by a call to \*Lsia_ses_init()\*O
and followed by a call to \*Lsia_ses_release()\*O.
.PP
The \*Lsia_ses_release()\*O routine is called at the end of the session
processing to release any resources associated with the session
startup processing, including the SIAENTITY structure.
After calling the \*Lsia_ses_release()\*O routine any \*Lexec*()\*O
should be done by the command
to start the actual new process running as the session uid.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lsia_ses_*()\*O routines return SIASUCCESS when the
are successful and SIAFAIL when they are not successful.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Possible errors include resource constraints (no memory) and various
authentication failures.
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/etc/passwd\*O
.PP
\*L/etc/sia/matrix.conf\*O
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lmatrix.conf\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
