.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sigemptyset.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/15 01:20:18 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH sigemptyset 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsigemptyset\*O, \*Lsigfillset\*O, \*Lsigaddset\*O, \*Lsigdelset\*O, \*Lsigismember\*O \- Creates and manipulates signal masks
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <signal.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint sigemptyset (
.nL
	sigset_t *\*Vset\*L);\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint sigfillset (
.nL
	sigset_t *\*Vset\*L);\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint sigaddset (
.nL
	sigset_t *\*Vset\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vsig_number \*L);\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint sigdelset (
.nL
	sigset_t *\*Vset\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vsig_number \*L);\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint sigismember (
.nL
	sigset_t *\*Vset\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vsig_number \*L);
.nL
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vset"
\*OSpecifies the signal set.
.LI "\*Vsig_number"
\*OSpecifies the individual signal.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "sigemptyset function"
.iX "sigfillset function"
.iX "sigaddset function"
.iX "sigdelset function"
.iX "sigismember function"
.iX "signal masks" "creating and manipulating"
.iX "creating signal masks"
The \*Lsigemptyset(\|), sigfillset(\|), sigaddset(\|), sigdelset(\|),\*O and
\*Lsigismember(\|)\*O functions manipulate sets of signals. These functions
operate on data objects that can be addressed by the application, not on any
set of signals known to the system, such as the set blocked from delivery
to a process or the set pending for a process.
.PP
The \*Lsigemptyset(\|)\*O function initializes the signal set
pointed to by the \*Vset\*O parameter such that all signals are
excluded. The \*Lsigfillset(\|)\*O function initializes the signal
set pointed to by the \*Vset\*O parameter such that all signals
are included. A call to either the \*Lsigfillset(\|)\*O or
\*Lsigemptyset(\|)\*O
function must be made at least once for each object of the type \*Lsigset_t\*O
prior to any other use of that object.
.PP
The \*Lsigaddset(\|)\*O and \*Lsigdelset(\|)\*O functions respectively
add and delete the individual signal specified by the \*Vsig_number\*O parameter
from the signal set specified by the \*Vset\*O parameter.
The \*Lsigismember(\|)\*O function tests whether the \*Vsig_number\*O
parameter is a member of the signal set pointed to by the \*Vset\*O parameter.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To generate and use a signal mask that blocks only
the SIGINT signal from delivery, enter:
.oS
\*L#include <signal.h>
.nL
\*Lint return_value;
.nL
\*Lsigset_t newset;
.nL
\*Lsigset_t *newset_p;
.nL
\*L  . . .
.nL
\*Lnewset_p = &newset;
.nL
\*L\ \ sigemptyset(newset);
.nL
\*Lsigaddset(newset, SIGINT);
.nL
\*Lreturn_value = sigprocmask (SIG_SETMASK, newset_p, NULL);
.oE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lsigismember(\|)\*O function
returns a value of 1 if the specified signal is a member of the
specified set, or a value of 0 (zero) if it is not. Upon successful completion,
the other functions return a value of 0.  For all the preceding
functions, if an error is detected, a value of -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lsigfillset(\|)\*O, \*Lsigdelset(\|)\*O, \*Lsigismember(\|)\*O,
or \*Lsigaddset(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to the following value:
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The value of the \*Vsig_number\*O parameter
is not a valid signal number.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lsigaction\*O(2),
\*Lsigprocmask\*O(2),
\*Lsigsuspend\*O(2),
\*Lsigvec\*O(2)
.PP
Files:
\*Lsignal\*O(4)
.iX "sigemptyset function"
.iX "sigfillset function"
.iX "sigaddset function"
.iX "sigdelset function"
.iX "sigismember function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
