.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: siginterrupt.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/20 17:29:24 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" 
.\" @(#)siginterrupt.3	6.1 (Berkeley) 5/15/85
.\" 
.TH siginterrupt 3
.SH NAME
\*Lsiginterrupt\*O \- Allows signals to interrupt functions
.SH LIBRARY
Berkeley Compatibility Library (\*Llibbsd.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lint siginterrupt(
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vsig\*O,\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vflag\*O) ;\*L
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vsig\*O"
Specifies the expected interrupt signal.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vflag\*O" 
Indicates
whether the function is to restart when interrupted by the specified
signal.
When the \*Vflag\*O parameter is TRUE, restart is disabled. When the
\*Vflag\*O parameter is
FALSE, restart is enabled.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "siginterrupt function"
.iX "signals" "interrupting functions"
.iX "interrupting functions with signals"
.iX "functions" "interrupting with signals"
The \*Lsiginterrupt(\|)\*O function is used to change the
restart behavior of a system call
when it is interrupted by a
signal specified by the \*Vsig\*O parameter. When the \*Vflag\*O
parameter is FALSE (0), system calls restart when
they are interrupted by the \*Vsig\*O signal and no data has yet been
transferred.
.PP
When the \*Vflag\*O parameter
is TRUE (1), restart of system calls is
disabled.  When a system call is interrupted by the \*Vsig\*O signal
and no data has been transferred, the function returns a value of -1 with \*Lerrno\*O set to [EINTR]. Otherwise, interrupted system
calls that have started transferring data return a value that is the
number of data bytes actually transferred.
.PP 
System call interrupt is the default behavior unless the calling
program has been linked with
the
\*Llibbsd\*O
library.
.SH NOTES
The use of the
\*Lsiginterrupt(\|)\*O
function does not affect signal-handling semantics in any other
way.
Programs may switch between restartable and
interruptible system call operation as often as desired in the
execution of a program.
.PP
Issuing a \*Lsiginterrupt(\|)\*O call during the execution of a
signal handler causes the new action to take place when the next instance
of the specified signal
is caught.
.PP
The
\*Lsiginterrupt(\|)\*O
function is provided for compatibility with BSD systems, and programs
that use it should be linked with the
\*Llibbsd\*O
library.  The recommended method for controlling whether a signal is
restartable or interruptible is to use the
\*Lsigaction(\|)\*O
function.
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, \*Lsiginterrupt(\|)\*O returns a value of 0
(zero). Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned to indicate that an invalid
signal value has been used.
.SH ERRORS
If the \*Lsiginterrupt(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to the following value:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The value of the
\*Vsig\*O
parameter
does not represent a valid signal.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lsigaction\*O(2),
\*Lsigprocmask\*O(2),
\*Lsigsuspend\*O(2)
.iX "siginterrupt function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
