.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: signal.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/21 17:04:34 $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)signal.3f 6.1 (Berkeley) 5/15/85
.\"
.TH signal 3
.SH NAME
\*Lsignal\*O \- Changes the action for a signal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "signal routine"
.sS
\*Linteger function signal(\*Vsignum\*L, \*Vproc\*L, \*Vflag\*L)\*O
.nL
\*Linteger \*Vsignum\*L, \*Vflag\*O
.nL
\*Lexternal \*Vproc\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
When a process incurs a signal,
the default action is usually to clean up and abort.
The user may choose to write an alternative signal handling routine.
A call to \*Vsignal\*O
is the way this alternate action is specified to the system.
.PP
The \*Vsignum\*O parameter is the signal number.
If \*Vflag\*O is negative, \*Vproc\*O must be the name of the user
signal handling routine.  If \*Vflag\*O is zero or positive,
\*Vproc\*O is ignored and the value of \*Vflag\*O
is passed to the system as the signal action definition.
In particular, this is how previously saved signal actions can be restored.
Two possible values for \*Vflag\*O have specific meanings:
.VL 4m
.LI "0"
Use the default action.  (See the NOTES section.)
.LI "1"
Ignore this signal.
.LE
.PP
A positive returned value is the previous action definition.
A value greater than 1 is the address of a routine that
was to have been called on occurrence of the given signal.
The returned value can be used in subsequent calls to \*Vsignal\*O
in order to restore a previous action definition.
A negative returned value is the negation of a system error code.
(See \*Lperror\*O(3).)
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Lf77\*O compiler
arranges to trap certain signals when a process is started.
The only way to restore the default \*Lf77\*O action is to save the returned
value from the first call to \*Vsignal\*O.
.PP
If the user signal handler is called, it will be passed the signal number
as an integer argument.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/usr/ucb/lib/libU77.a\*O"
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/libU77.a\*O"
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lkill\*O(1), \*Lkill\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
