.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sigpause.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/20 17:29:50 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH sigpause 3
.SH NAME
\*Lsigpause\*O \- Provides a compatibility interface to the \*Lsigsuspend\*O function
.SH LIBRARY
\*OStandard C Library \*L(libc.a)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
.PP 
\*L#include <signal.h>
.sp .4v
int sigpause (
.nL
	int \*Vsignal_mask \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vsignal_mask"
\*OSpecifies which signals to block.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "sigpause function"
.iX "blocking signals"
.iX "signals" "blocking"
.PP 
The \*Lsigpause(\|)\*O function call blocks the signals
specified by the \*Vsignal_mask\*O parameter and then suspends execution
of the process until delivery of a signal whose action is either to
execute a signal-catching function or to end the process.  Signal
of value \*Vi\*O is blocked if the \*Vi\*O-th bit of the mask
is set.  Only signals with values 1 to 31 can be blocked with the
\*Lsigpause(\|)\*O function. In addition, the \*Lsigpause(\|)\*O function does
not allow the SIGKILL, SIGSTOP, or SIGCONT
signals to be blocked.  If a program attempts to block one of these
signals, the \*Lsigpause(\|)\*O function gives no indication of the
error.
.PP 
The \*Lsigpause(\|)\*O function sets the signal mask and waits
for an unblocked signal as one atomic operation. This means that signals
cannot occur between the operations of setting the mask and waiting
for a signal.
.PP 
The \*Lsigpause(\|)\*O function is provided for compatibility
with older UNIX systems; its function is a subset of the \*Lsigsuspend(\|)\*O
function.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
If a signal is caught by the calling process and control is returned
from the signal handler, the calling process resumes execution after
the \*Lsigpause(\|)\*O function, which always returns a value of
-1 and sets \*Lerrno\*O to [EINTR].
.PP 
If delivery of a signal causes the process to end, the \*Lsigpause(\|)\*O
function does not return.
.PP 
If delivery of a signal causes a signal-catching function to execute,
the \*Lsigpause(\|)\*O function returns after the signal-catching
function returns, with the signal mask restored to the set that existed
prior to the \*Lsigpause(\|)\*O call.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lpause\*O(3),
\*Lsigaction\*O(2),
\*Lsigblock\*O(2),
\*Lsigprocmask\*O(2),
\*Lsigsuspend\*O(2),
\*Lsigvec\*O(2)
.iX "sigpause function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
