.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sigsetjmp.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/02/04 13:26:59 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH sigsetjmp 3
.SH NAME
\*Lsigsetjmp\*O \- Sets jump point for a nonlocal goto
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <setjmp.h>
.sp .4v
\*Lint sigsetjmp(
.nL
	\*Lsigjmp_buf \*Venv\*L,
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vsavemask \*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Venv\*O"
Specifies an address for a
\*Lsigjmp_buf\*O
structure.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "\*Vsavemask\*O" 
Specifies whether the current signal mask should be saved.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "sigsetjmp function"
.iX "jump point" "setting"
.iX "nonlocal goto" "setting jump point"
.nL
The
\*Lsigsetjmp(\|)\*O
function saves its calling environment in its
\*Venv\*O
parameter for later use by the
\*Lsiglongjmp(\|)\*O
function.
.PP 
If the value of the
\*Vsavemask\*O
parameter is not 0 (zero) the
\*Lsigsetjmp(\|)\*O
function will also save the process' current signal mask as
part of the calling environment.
.SH NOTES
.PP 
\*LAES Support Level:\*O
Full use
.SH RETURN VALUES
.nL
If the return is from a successful direct invocation, the
\*Lsigsetjmp(\|)\*O
function returns the value 0 (zero).
If the return is from a call to the
\*Lsiglongjmp(\|)\*O
function, the
\*Lsigsetjmp(\|)\*O
function returns a nonzero value.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lsigaction\*O(2),
\*Lsiglongjmp\*O(3),
\*Lsigprocmask\*O(2),
\*Lsigsuspend\*O(2)
.iX "sigsetjmp function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
