.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sigwait.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/20 17:30:29 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH sigwait 3
.SH NAME
\*Lsigwait\*O \- Suspends a calling thread
.SH LIBRARY
Threads Library (\*Llibpthreads.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <signal.h>\*O
.nL
\*Lint sigwait\*O(
.wH .in +1.5  
.nL
	\*Lsigset_t *\*Vset\f1);\*O
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "\*Vset\*O"
Specifies the set of signals to wait for.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "sigwait function"
.iX "thread" "suspending"
.iX "suspending threads"
.PP 
The
\*Lsigwait(\|)\*O
function suspends the calling thread until at least one of the signals
in the
\*Vset\*O
parameter
is in the threads set of pending signals.  When this happens, one of
those signals is atomically chosen and removed from the set of pending
signals and that signal number is returned.
.PP 
The effect is unspecified if any signals in the
\*Vset\*O
parameter
are not blocked when the
\*Lsigwait(\|)\*O
function
is called.
.PP 
The
\*Vset\*O
parameter is created using the set manipulation functions
\*Lsigemptyset(\|)\*O,
\*Lsigfillset(\|)\*O,
\*Lsigaddset(\|)\*O,
and
\*Lsigdelset(\|)\*O.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion, the signal number of the pending
signal is returned.  Otherwise,
-1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP 
If the
\*Lsigwait(\|)\*O
function fails, \*Lerrno\*O may be set to the following value:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The value of the
\*Vset\*O
parameter
contains an invalid or unsupported signal number.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lsigaction\*O(2),
\*Lsigpending\*O(2),
\*Lsigsuspend\*O(2)
.iX "sigwait function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
