.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sleep.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/20 17:31:08 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH sleep 3
.SH NAME
\*Lsleep\*O \- Suspends execution for an interval
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.nL
Threads Library (\*Llibpthreads.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lunsigned int sleep (
.nL
	unsigned int \*Vseconds\*O );\*L
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vseconds\*O"
Specifies the number of seconds to sleep.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "sleep function"
.iX "suspending process execution"
.iX "process" "suspending execution"
.iX "execution of a process" "suspending"
.PP 
The \*Lsleep(\|)\*O function suspends execution of a process for
the interval specified by the \*Vseconds\*O parameter.
The suspension time may be longer than requested due to the
scheduling of other activity by the system.
.PP 
In a multi-threaded environment, the
\*Lsleep(\|)\*O
function,
is redefined so that only the calling thread is
suspended.
.SH NOTES
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
If the
\*Lsleep(\|)\*O
function returns because the requested time has elapsed, 0 (zero)
is returned.  If the
\*Lsleep(\|)\*O
function returns because a signal was caught, the amount of time
still remaining to be "slept" is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lalarm\*O(3),
\*Lpause\*O(3),
\*Lsigaction\*O(2),
\*Lsleep\*O(3)
.PP 
Commands:
\*Lshutdown\*O(8),
\*Lwall\*O(1)
.iX "sleep function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
