.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH ssignal 3
.SH "NAME"
\*Lssignal\*O, \*Lssignal_r\*O, \*Lgsignal\*O, \*Lgsignal_r\*O \- Set and raise a software signal
.SH "LIBRARY"
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.PP
\*L#include <signal.h>
.PP
\*Lvoid (*ssignal(
.nL
	int \*Vsignal\*L,
.nL
	void (*\*Vfunction\*L)(int))) (int);
.PP
\*Lvoid (*ssignal_r(
.nL
	int \*Vsignal\*L,
.nL
	void (*\*Vfunction\*L) (int),
.nL
	void (*\*Vsigs\*L[\|])(int))) (int);\*O
.PP
\*Lint gsignal(
.nL
	int \*Vsignal\*L);
.PP
.PP
\*Lint gsignal_r(
.nL
	int \*Vsignal\*L,
.nL
	void (*\*Vsigs\*L[\|]\*L)(int));\*O
.PP
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vsignal\*O"
Defines the signal.
.LI "\*Vfunction\*O"
Specifies the action associated with the \*Vsignal\*O.
.LI "\*Vsigs\*O"
Specifies the array of signal functions.
This structure must have at least 21
entries, each of which must be initialized to 0 (zero) by the caller.
.LE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "ssignal function"
The \*Lssignal(\|)\*O and \*Lgsignal(\|)\*O functions implement
a facility similar to that of the \*Lsignal(\|)\*O function
and the \*Lkill(\|)\*O system call.  However, there is no connection
between the two facilities.  User programs can use the
\*Lssignal(\|)\*O and
\*Lgsignal(\|) \*Ofunctions to handle exception processing within
an application.  \*Lsignal(\|)\*O and related functions
handle system-defined exceptions.
.PP
\*OThe signals available are associated with integers in
the range 1 to 15.  Other values are reserved for use by the
C library and should not be used.
.PP
\*OThe \*Lssignal(\|)\*O function associates the procedure specified
by the \*Vfunction\*O parameter with the signal specified
by the \*Vsignal \*Oparameter. The \*Lgsignal(\|)\*O function raises
the \*Vsignal\*O, causing the procedure specified by the \*Vfunction\*O
parameter to be taken.
.PP
\*OThe \*Vfunction \*Oparameter is either a pointer to a user-defined
function, or either of the constants \*LSIG_DFL\*O (default action)
or \*LSIG_IGN\*O (ignore signal). The \*Lssignal(\|)\*O function
returns the procedure that was previously established for that signal.
If no procedure was established before, or if the signal number is
illegal, then \*Lssignal(\|)\*O returns the value \*LSIG_DFL\*O.
.PP
\*OThe \*Lgsignal(\|)\*O function raises the signal specified
by the \*Vsignal \*Oparameter by performing the following:
.ML
.LI
\*OIf the procedure for \*Vsignal \*Ois \*LSIG_DFL\*O, the \*Lgsignal(\|)\*O
function returns a value of 0 (zero) and takes no other action.
.LI
\*OIf the procedure for \*Vsignal \*Ois \*LSIG_IGN\*O, the \*Lgsignal(\|)\*O
function returns a value of 1 and takes no other action.
.LI
\*OIf the procedure for \*Vsignal \*Ois a function,
the \*Vfunction\*O value is reset to \*LSIG_DFL\*O and the
function is called with \*Vsignal \*Opassed as its parameter.
The \*Lgsignal(\|)\*O function returns the value returned by the
calling \*Vfunction\*O with a single integer argument, which is the
value of \*Vsignal\*O.
.LI
\*OIf the procedure for \*Vsignal\*O is illegal or if no procedure
is specified for that signal, \*Lgsignal(\|)\*O returns a value of
0 (zero) and takes no other action.
.LE
.PP
The \*Lssignal_r(\|)\*O and \*Lgsignal_r(\|)\*O functions
are the reentrant versions of the \*Lssignal(\|)\*O and
\*Lgsignal(\|)\*O functions.  Upon successful completion, the
\*Lssignal_r(\|)\*O
and \*Lgsignal_r(\|)\*O functions place or retrieve pointers in the
signal structure
structure in \*Vsigs\*O.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lssignal(\|)\*O and \*Lssignal_r(\|)\*O functions return the value
of the previously installed function, if there was one, or
\*LSIG_DFL\*O if there was not a previously installed function.
If the value of \*Vsignal\*O was illegal the \*Lssignal(\|)\*O and
\*Lssignal_r(\|)\*O functions return \*LSIG_DFL\*O.
.PP
The \*Lgsignal(\|)\*O and \*Lgsignal_r(\|)\*O functions
return a value of 0
(zero) if the procedure for \*Vsignal\*O is illegal, or if
\*LSIG_DFL\*O is the action for \*Vsignal\*O.  The \*Lgsignal(\|)\*O
and \*Lgsignal_r(\|)\*O functions return a value of 1 if the procedure for
\*Vsignal\*O is \*LSIG_IGN\*O.  If none of these are true, then the
\*Lgsignal(\|)\*O and \*Lgsignal_r(\|)\*O functions return the
value returned by the calling \*Vfunction\*O.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Functions: \*Lkill(2)\*O, \*Lsignal(2)\*O.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
