.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: staux.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/02/01 17:42:30 $
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright (c) 1986, MIPS Computer Systems, Inc. |
.\" | All Rights Reserved.                            |
.\" ---------------------------------------------------
.\" $Header: /usr/doc/osf1doc/refpages/rcs/src/./BASE/DEC/man3/staux.3,v 3.2.2.3 1993/02/01 17:42:30 Margaret_Barham Exp $
.TH staux 3
.SH NAME
\*Lstaux\*O \- Routines that provide scalar interfaces to auxiliaries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "staux routine"
.iX "scalar interfaces" "staux routine"
.nf
\*L#include <syms.h>\*O
.PP
\*Llong st_auxbtadd(bt)\*O
\*Llong bt;\*O
.PP
\*Llong st_auxbtsize(iaux,width)\*O
\*Llong iaux;\*O
\*Llong width;\*O
.PP
\*Llong st_auxisymadd (isym)\*O
\*Llong isym;\*O
.PP
\*Llong st_auxrndxadd (rfd,index)\*O
\*Llong rfd;\*O
\*Llong index;\*O
.PP
\*Llong st_auxrndxadd (idn)\*O
\*Llong idn;\*O
.PP
\*Lvoid st_addtq (iaux,tq)\*O
\*Llong iaux;\*O
\*Llong tq;\*O
.PP
\*Llong st_tqhigh_aux(iaux)\*O
\*Llong iaux;\*O
.PP
\*Lvoid st_shifttq (iaux, tq)\*O
\*Lint iaux;\*O
\*Lint tq;\*O
.PP
\*Llong st_iaux_copyty (ifd, psym)\*O
\*Llong ifd;\*O
\*LpSYMR psym;\*O
.PP
\*Lvoid st_changeaux (iaux, aux)\*O
\*Llong iaux;\*O
\*LAUXU aux;\*O
.PP
\*Lvoid st_changeauxrndx (iaux, rfd, index)\*O
\*Llong iaux;\*O
\*Llong rfd;\*O
\*Llong index;\*O
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Auxiliary entries are unions with a fixed length of four bytes per entry.
Much information is packed within the auxiliaries. Rather than have
the compiler front-ends handle each type of auxiliary entry directly,
the following set of routines provide a high-level
scalar interface to the auxiliaries:
.VL
.LI "\*Vst_auxbtadd\*O"
Adds a type information record (TIR) to the auxiliaries.  It
sets the basic
type (bt) to the argument and all other fields to zero. The index
to this auxiliary entry is returned.
.LI "\*Vst_auxbtsize\*O"
Sets the bit in the TIR, pointed to by the
\*Viaux\*O
argument.  This argument says the basic type is a bit field and adds
an auxiliary with its width in bits.
.LI "\*Vst_auxisymadd\*O"
Adds an index into the symbol table (or any other scalar) to the auxiliaries.
It sets the value
to the argument that will occupy all four bytes. The index
to this auxiliary entry is returned.
.LI "\*Vst_auxrndxadd\*O"
Adds a relative index, RNDXR, to the auxiliaries.  It sets the rfd and index
to their respective arguments.
The index to this auxiliary entry is returned.
.LI "\*Vst_auxrndxadd_idn\*O"
Works the same as \*Vst_auxrndxadd\*O
except that RNDXR is referenced by an index into the dense number table.
.LI "\*Vst_iaux_copyty\*O"
Copies the type from the specified file (ifd) for the specified symbol
into the auxiliary table for the current file.  It returns the index to
the new aux.
.LI "\*Vst_shifttq\*O"
Shifts in the specified type qualifier, tq, into the auxiliary entry TIR,
which is specified by the `iaux' index
into the current file. The current
type qualifiers shift up one tq so that the first tq (tq0) is free
for the new entry.
.LI "\*Vst_addtq\*O"
Adds a type qualifier in the highest or most significant non-tqNil type
qualifier.
.LI "\*Vst_tqhigh_iaux\*O"
Returns the most significant type qualifier given an index into the files
aux table.
.LI "\*Vst_changeaux\*O"
Changes the iauxth aux in the current file's auxiliary table to aux.
.LI "\*Vst_changeauxrndx\*O"
Converts the relative index (RNDXR) auxiliary, which is specified by iaux,
to the specified arguments.
.LE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The interface will added to incrementally, as needed.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lstfd\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
