.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: stcu.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/02/01 18:04:41 $
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright (c) 1986, MIPS Computer Systems, Inc. |
.\" | All Rights Reserved.                            |
.\" ---------------------------------------------------
.\" $Header: /usr/doc/osf1doc/refpages/rcs/src/./BASE/DEC/man3/stcu.3,v 3.2.2.3 1993/02/01 18:04:41 Margaret_Barham Exp $
.TH stcu 3
.SH NAME
\*Lstcu\*O \- Routines that provide a compilation unit symbol table interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "stcu routine"
.iX "symbol table interface" "stcu routine"
.nf
\*L#include <syms.h>\*O
.PP
\*LpCHDRR st_cuinit ()\*O
.PP
\*Lvoid st_setchdr (pchdr)\*O
\*LpCHDRR pchdr;\*O
.PP
\*LpCHDRR st_currentpchdr()\*O
.PP

\*Lvoid st_free()\*O
.PP
\*Llong st_extadd (iss, value, st, sc, index)\*O
\*Llong iss;\*O
\*Llong value;\*O
\*Llong st;\*O
\*Llong sc;\*O
\*Llong index;\*O
.PP
\*LpEXTR st_pext_iext (iext)\*O
\*Llong iext;\*O
.PP
\*LpEXTR st_pext_rndx (rndx)\*O
\*LRNDXR rndx;\*O
.PP
\*Llong st_iextmax()\*O
.PP
\*Llong st_extstradd (str)\*O
\*Lchar *str;\*O
.PP
\*Lchar *st_str_extiss (iss)\*O
\*Llong iss;\*O
.PP
\*Llong st_idn_index_fext (index, fext)\*O
\*Llong index;\*O
\*Llong fext;\*O
.PP
\*Llong st_idn_rndx (rndx)\*O
\*LRNDXR rndx;\*O
.PP
\*LpRNDXR st_pdn_idn (idn)\*O
\*Llong idn;\*O
.PP
\*LRNDXR st_rndx_idn (idn)\*O
\*Llong idn;\*O
.PP
\*Lvoid st_setidn (idndest, idnsrc)\*O
\*Llong idndest;\*O
\*Llong idnsrc;\*O
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Vstcu\*O routines provide an interface to objects that occur once per
object rather than once per file descriptor (for example,
external symbols, strings, and dense numbers).
The routines provide access to the current \*Vchdr\*O
(compile time hdr), which represents the symbol table in running processes with
pointers to symbol table sections rather than indices and offsets used in
the disk file representation.
.PP
A new symbol table can be created with
\*Vst_cuinit.\*O
This routine creates and initializes a CHDRR.
The CHDRR is the current chdr and is used in all later calls.
\*LNOTE\*O: A chdr can also be created with the read
routines (see \*Lstio\*O(3)). The \*Vst_cuinit\*O routine returns a
pointer to the new CHDRR record.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vst_currentchdr\*O"
Returns a pointer the current chdr.
.LI "\*Vst_setchdr\*O"
Sets the current chdr to the
\*Vpchdr\*O
argument and sets the per file structures to reflect a change in
symbol tables.
.LI "\*Vst_free\*O"
Frees all constituent structures associated with the
current chdr.
.LI "\*Vst_extadd\*O"
Lets you add to the externals table. It returns the index to
the new external for future reference and use. The \*Vifd\*O
field for the external is filled in by the current file (see \*Lstfd\*O(3)).
.LI "\*Vst_pext_iext\*O"
.LI "\*Vst_pext_rndx\*O"
Returns pointers to the external, given a index referencing them. The
latter routine requires a relative index where the \*Vindex\*O
field should be the index in external symbols and the \*Vrfd\*O
field should be the constant ST_EXTIFD. \*LNOTE\*O:
The externals contain the same structure as symbols (see the \*VSYMR\*O
and \*VEXTR\*O definitions).
.LI "\*Vst_iextmax\*O"
Returns the current number of entries in the external symbol table.
.IP
The \*Viss\*O field in external symbols (the index into string space) must
point into external string space.
.LI "\*Vst_extstradd\*O"
Adds a null-terminated string to the external string space and returns
its index.
.LI "\*Vst_str_extiss\*O"
Converts that index into a pointer to the external string.
.IP
The dense number table provides a convenience to the code optimizer,
generator, and assembler. This table lets them reference symbols from
different files and externals with unique densely packed numbers.
.LI "\*Vst_idn_index_fext\*O"
Returns a new dense number table index, given an index into the symbol
table of the current file (or if \*Vfext\*O is set, the externals table).
.LI "\*Vst_idn_rndx\*O"
Returns a new dense number, but expects a RNDXR to specify
both the file index and the symbol index rather than implying the file
index from the current file.
The RNDXR contains two fields: an index into the externals table and a file
index (\*Vrsyms\*O can point into the symbol table, as well). The file
index is ST_EXTIFD for externals.
.LI "\*Vst_rndx_idn\*O"
Returns a RNDX, given an index into the dense number table.
.LI "\*Vst_pdn_idn\*O"
Returns a pointer to the RNDXR index by the `idn' argument.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lstfe\*O(3), \*Lstfd\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
