.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: stime.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/20 17:32:14 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH stime 3
.SH NAME
\*Lstime\*O \- Sets the system-wide time-of-day clock
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/time.h>
.sp .4v
int stime(
.nL
	long *\*Vtz \*L);
.sE 
.SH PARAMETERS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Vtz"
Points to the value of time, to be interpreted as the number of
seconds since 00:00:00 GMT on January 1, 1970.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "stime function"
.iX "system clock" "setting"
.iX "setting the system clock"
.iX "clock"
.PP 
The
\*Lstime(\|)\*O
function sets the time and date of the system.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
Upon successful completion,  a value of 0 (zero) is returned.
Otherwise, -1 is returned and
\*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If the \*Lstime(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
is set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "[EPERM]"
The calling process does not have the appropriate
system privilege.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lgettimeofday\*O(2),
\*Lgettimer\*O(3)
.iX "stime function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
