.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: strcoll.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/19 16:23:49 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH strcoll 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lstrcoll\*O \- Compares strings using locale collation
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <string.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint strcoll\*L(\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char\*L *\*Vs1\*L,\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char\*L *\*Vs2\*L);\*L
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vs1\*O"
Specifies first string to be compared.
.LI "\*Vs2\*O"
Specifies second string to be compared.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "strcoll function"
The \*Lstrcoll(\|)\*O function compares the string pointed to by
the \*Vs1\*O parameter with the string pointed to by the
\*Vs2\*O parameter, both interpreted as appropriate to the
\*LLC_COLLATE\*O category of the current locale.
The sign of a nonzero value returned by \*Lstrcoll(\|)\*O
is determined by the relative ordering within the current collating
sequence of the first pair of characters that differ in the objects under
comparison.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On successful completion, the \*Lstrcoll(\|)\*O
function returns an integer whose value
is greater than, equal to, or less than 0
(zero), according to whether the \*Vs1\*O string
is greater than, equal to, or less than the
\*Vs2\*O string. When a successful comparison cannot be made,
this function returns a value of 0 (zero).
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the following condition occurs, this function sets \*lerrno\*O to
the corresponding value.
.VL
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The string pointed to by the \*Vs1\*O or \*Vs2\*O parameter contains
characters outside the domain of the collating sequence.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lsetlocale\*O(3),
\*Lstring\*O(3)/\*Lstrcmp\*O(3),
\*Lstrxfrm\*O(3),
\*Lwcscoll\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
