.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: strchr.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/21 19:30:02 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH strchr 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lrindex\*O, \*Lindex\*O, \*Lstrchr\*O, \*Lstrrchr\*O \- Search for character in string
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <string.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lchar *rindex(
.nL
	const char *\*Vs\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vc\*L);\*O
.\" .zA "defect, 6865, R1.1.1: Added index synopsis from libpw.3"
.sp 0.4v
\*Lchar *index(
.nL
	const char *\*Vs\*L,
.nL
	int \*Vc\*L);\*O
.\" .zZ "defect, 6865, R1.1.1: Added index synopsis from libpw.3"
.sp 0.4v
\*Lchar *strchr\*L(\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char\*L *\*Vs\*L,\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vc\*L);\*L
.sp 0.4v
\*Lchar *strrchr\*L(\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char\*L *\*Vs\*L,\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vc\*L);\*L
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vs\*O"
Specifies the string to search.
.LI "\*Vc\*O"
Specifies a character, expressed as an \*Lint\*O data type,
to search for.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "strchr function"
.iX "strrchr function"
.iX "rindex function"
.iX "index function"
The \*Lstrchr(\|)\*O
function locates the first occurrence of the integer specified
by the \*Vc\*O parameter,
which is converted to a \*Lchar\*O, in the string pointed to by
the \*Vs\*O parameter.
The terminating null character is treated as part of the
string pointed to by the \*Vs\*O parameter.
.PP
The \*Lstrrchr(\|)\*O
function locates the last occurrence of the integer specified by
the \*Vc\*O parameter, which is converted to a \*Lchar\*O value,
in the string pointed to by the \*Vs\*O parameter.
The terminating null character is treated as a part of the string pointed
to by the \*Vs\*O parameter.
.PP
.\" .zA "defect, 6865, R1.1.1: Added description of index() relative to strchr()."
The \*Lrindex(\|)\*O and \*Lindex(\|)\*O functions provide the same
functionality as the
\*Lstrrchr(\|)\*O and \*Lstrchr(\|)\*O functions, respectively.  They
are provided for compatibility with existing systems.
.\" .zA "defect, 6865, R1.1.1: Added description of index() relative to strchr()."
.PP
If \*Vc\*O is a null byte ('\\0') in these functions,
they locate the terminating null byte of \*Vs\*O.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
(\*Lstrchr(\|)\*O,
\*Lstrrchr(\|)\*O).
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, these functions
return a pointer to the matching character in the scanned string. When
the character specified by parameter \*Vc\*O is not found, a null pointer
is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lstring\*O(3),
\*Lwcschr\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
