.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: strerror.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/19 16:25:38 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\" 
.TH strerror 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lstrerror\*O, \*Lstrerror_r\*O \- Access message explaining function error
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <string.h>
.PP
\*Lchar *strerror\*L(\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Verrnum\*L);\*L
.PP
\*Lint strerror_r\*L(\*L
.nL
	\*Lint \*Verrnum\*L,\*L
.nL
	\*Lchar\*L *\*Vstrerrbuf\*L,\*L
.nL
	\*Lint\*L \*Vbuflen\*L); \*L
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Verrnum\*O"
Specifies an error-number value.
.LI "\*Vstrerrbuf\*O"
Specifies a buffer that will hold the error message.
.LI "\*Vbuflen\*O"
Specifies the length of the buffer.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "strerror function"
.iX "strerror_r function"
The \*Lstrerror(\|)\*O
function maps the error number specified by the \*Verrnum\*O parameter
to a error message string and returns a pointer
to the string.  The string pointed to by the return value is
not modified by the program, but may be overwritten by a subsequent call
to this function.
The implementation behaves as though no other function calls the
\*Lstrerror(\|)\*O function.
.PP
If a library message catalog is available for the current locale,
the \*Lstrerror(\|)\*O function stores the message from that
catalog. Otherwise, it uses the default messages. The \*LLC_MESSAGES\*O
category in the \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O call specifies
the message catalog language, and
the \*LNLSPATH\*O environment variable specifies the directory search
path for message catalogs.
.PP
The \*Lstrerror_r(\|)\*O function is the reentrant version of the
\*Lstrerror(\|)\*O function.  On successful completion, the error
message is returned in \*Vstrerrbuf\*O.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use (\*Lstrerror(\|)\*O).
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On successful completion, the \*Lstrerror(\|)\*O function returns a
pointer to the generated message string.  If the error number is not valid,
\*Lerrno\*O is set to [EINVAL].
.PP
On successful completion, the \*Lstrerror_r(\|)\*O function returns a
value of 0 (zero); otherwise, a value of -1 is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the following condition occurs, these functions set \*lerrno\*O to
the corresponding value.
.VL 1i
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Verrnum\*O parameter is an invalid error number or, in the
\*Lstrerror_r(\|)\*O function, the
\*Vstrerrorbuf\*O is inaccessible.  Note that the
\*Lstrerror_r(\|)\*O function truncates the error message if
\*Vstrerrbuf\*O is too small.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lintro\*O(2),
\*Lcatgets\*O(3),
\*Lcatopen\*O(3),
\*Lperror\*O(3),
\*Lsetlocale\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
