.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: string.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/15 01:26:10 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH string 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lstrcat\*O, \*Lstrcmp\*O, \*Lstrcpy\*O, \*Lstrdup\*O \- Perform operations on strings
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <string.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lchar *strcat(
.nL
        \*Lchar *\*Vs1\*L,
.nL
        \*Lconst char *\*Vs2\*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint strcmp(
.nL
        \*Lconst char *\*Vs1\*L,
.nL
        \*Lconst char *\*Vs2\*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lchar *strcpy(
.nL
        \*Lchar *\*Vs1\*L,
.nL
        \*Lconst char *\*Vs2\*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lchar * strdup(
.nL
        \*Lconst char *\*Vs1\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vs1\*O"
In \*Lstrcat(\|)\*O, specifies the destination string for
appending; in \*Lstrcmp(\|)\*O, specifies the first
of two strings to compare; in \*Lstrcpy(\|)\*O, specifies
the destination string for the copying; and in \*Lstrdup(\|)\*O,
specifies the string to be duplicated.
.LI "\*Vs2\*O"
In \*Lstrcat(\|)\*O, specifies the string to be appended to \*Vs1\*O;
in \*Lstrcmp(\|)\*O, specifies the second
of two strings to compare; and in \*Lstrcpy(\|)\*O, specifies
the source string for the copying.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "strcat function"
.iX "strcmp function"
.iX "strcpy function"
.iX "strdup function"
.iX "string manipulation"
.iX "manipulating strings"
.iX "string operations"
.iX "operations on strings"
The \*Lstrcat(\|)\*O
function appends a copy of the string pointed to by the
\*Vs2\*O parameter, including the terminating null character, to the end
of the string pointed to by the \*Vs1\*O parameter.
The beginning character of the string pointed to by the
\*Vs2\*O parameter overwrites the null character at the end of
the string pointed to by the \*Vs1\*O parameter.
When operating on overlapping strings, the behavior of this
function is unreliable.
.PP
The \*Lstrcmp(\|)\*O function compares the string pointed to by
the \*Vs1\*O parameter to the string pointed to by the \*Vs2\*O parameter.
The sign of a nonzero value returned by \*Lstrcmp(\|)\*O
is determined by the sign of the difference between the values of
the first pair of bytes (both interpreted as \*Lunsigned char\*O)
that differ in the two compared objects.
.PP
The \*Lstrcmp(\|)\*O function compares strings based on the machine
collating order. It does not use the locale-dependent sorting order.
Use the \*Lstrcol(\|)\*O or \*Lwcscol(\|)\*O functions for
locale-dependent sorting.
.PP
The \*Lstrcpy(\|)\*O function copies the string pointed to by the
\*Vs2\*O parameter, including the terminating null character,
to the location pointed to by the \*Vs1\*O parameter.
When operating on overlapping strings, the behavior of this
function is unreliable.
.PP
The \*Lstrdup(\|)\*O
function returns a pointer to a new string that is an exact duplicate
of the string pointed to by the \*Vs1\*O parameter.  The
\*Lmalloc(\|)\*O function is used to allocate space for the new string.
The \*Lstrdup(\|)\*O function is provided for compatibility with
existing systems.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use (\*Lstrcat(\|)\*O,
\*Lstrcmp(\|)\*O,
\*Lstrcpy(\|)\*O).
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On successful completion, the \*Lstrcat(\|)\*O, \*Lstrcpy(\|)\*O,
and \*Lstrdup(\|)\*O functions return a pointer to the
resulting string. Otherwise, these functions return a null pointer.
.PP
On successful completion, the \*Lstrcmp(\|)\*O
function returns an integer whose value
is greater than, equal to, or less than 0 (zero), according to whether the
\*Vs1\*O string is greater than, equal to, or less than the
\*Vs2\*O string.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lmalloc\*O(3),
\*Lmemccpy\*O(3),
\*Lsetlocale\*O(3),
\*Lstrchr\*O(3),
\*Lstrcoll\*O(3),
\*Lstrlen\*O(3),
\*Lstrncat\*O(3)/\*Lstrncmp\*O(3)/\*Lstrncpy\*O(3),
\*Lstrpbrk\*O(3),
\*Lstrspn\*O(3),
\*Lstrtok\*O(3),
\*Lstrstr\*O(3),
\*Lstrxfrm\*O(3),
\*Lswab\*O(3).
\*Lwcscat\*O(3)/\*Lwcscmp\*O(3)/\*Lwcscpy\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
