.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: strlen.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/21 19:34:38 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\" 
.TH strlen 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lstrlen\*O \- Finds length of string
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\" .zA "defect, 7724, R1.1.2, Removed strcat function line"
.\" .zZ "defect, 7724, R1.1.2, Removed strcat function line"
.sS
\*L#include <string.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lsize_t strlen\*L(\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char\*L *\*Vs\*L);\*L
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vs\*O"
Specifies the string.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "strlen function"
The \*Lstrlen(\|)\*O
function returns the number of bytes in the string pointed to by the
\*Vs\*O parameter. The string length value does not include the
string terminating null character.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5I
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lstrlen(\|)\*O function
returns the number of characters in the string to which the
\*Vs\*O parameter points. Otherwise, (\*Lsize_t\*O)-1 is returned, and
\*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lstring\*O(3),
\*Lwcslen\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
