.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: strncat.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/29 21:33:10 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH strncat 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lstrncat\*O, \*Lstrncmp\*O, \*Lstrncpy\*O \- Perform operations on string
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <string.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lchar *strncat\*L(\*L
.nL
	\*Lchar\*L *\*Vs1\*L,\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char\*L *\*Vs2\*L,\*L
.nL
	\*Lsize_t \*Vn\*L);\*L
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint strncmp\*L(\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char\*L *\*Vs1\*L,\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char\*L *\*Vs2\*L,\*L
.nL
	\*Lsize_t \*Vn\*L);
.sp 0.4v
\*Lchar *strncpy\*L(\*L
.nL
	\*Lchar\*L *\*Vs1\*L,\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char\*L *\*Vs2\*L,\*L
.nL
	\*Lsize_t \*Vn\*L);\*L
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vs1\*O"
Points to a location containing first string.
.LI "\*Vs2\*O"
Points to a location containing the second of two strings referenced.
.LI "\*Vn\*O"
Specifies the number of bytes in a string.
In \*Lstrncat(\|)\*O, \*Vn\*O specifies the maximum number of bytes to append;
in \*Lstrncmp(\|)\*O, \*Vn\*O specifies the maximum number of bytes to compare;
and in \*Lstrncpy(\|)\*O, \*Vn\*O specifies the number of bytes to copy.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "strncat function"
.iX "strncmp function"
.iX "strncpy function"
The \*Lstrncat(\|)\*O function appends
\*Vn\*O bytes in the string pointed to by the \*Vs2\*O parameter
to the end of the string pointed to by the \*Vs1\*O parameter. The initial character of
the string pointed to by \*Vs2\*O overwrites the null character at the end of
the string pointed to by \*Vs1\*O.
The \*Lstrncat(\|)\*O function appends at most the
number of characters specified by the value of
the \*Vn\*O parameter minus 1.  It then appends a null byte
to the result, and returns \*Vs1\*O.
When operating on overlapping strings, the behavior of this
function is unreliable.
.PP
The \*Lstrncmp(\|)\*O
function compares the string pointed to by the \*Vs1\*O parameter
to the string pointed to by the \*Vs2\*O parameter.
The sign of a nonzero value returned by
\*Lstrcmp(\|)\*O is determined by the sign of the difference between the values of the first pair of bytes (both interpreted as \*Lunsigned char\*O)
that differ in the two compared objects. The \*Lstrncmp(\|)\*O
functions compares bytes until it has compared \*Vn\*O bytes or until
it reaches a terminating null byte.
.PP
The \*Lstrncmp(\|)\*O function compares strings based on the machine
collating order. It does not use the locale-dependent sorting order.
Use the \*Lstrcol(\|)\*O or \*Lwcscol(\|)\*O functions for
locale-dependent sorting.
.PP
The \*Lstrncpy(\|)\*O function copies no more than the number of characters
specified by the \*Vn\*O parameter from the location pointed to by the \*Vs2\*O parameter
to the location pointed to by the \*Vs1\*O parameter.
Characters following a null character are not copied.
When operating on overlapping strings, the behavior of this
function is unreliable.
When the location pointed to by the \*Vs2\*O parameter
is a string whose character length is less than the value specified by
the \*Vn\*O parameter, null characters are appended to the
\*Vs1\*O string until \*Vn\*O characters are contained in the string.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lstrncat(\|)\*O and
\*Lstrncpy(\|)\*O functions return a pointer to the
resulting string. Otherwise, these functions return a null pointer.
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lstrncmp(\|)\*O
function returns an integer whose value
is greater than, equal to, or less than 0
(zero), according to whether the \*Vs1\*O string
is greater than, equal to, or less than the
\*Vs2\*O string. When a successful comparison cannot be made,
these functions return a value of 0 (zero).
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lstring\*O(3), \*Lstrcat\*O(3), \*Lstrcmp\*O(3), \*Lstrcpy\*O(3),
\*Lwcsncat\*O(3), \*Lwcsncmp\*O(3), \*Lwcsncpy\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
