.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: strptime.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/01 18:26:09 $
.\"
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH strptime 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lstrptime\*O \- Converts a character string to a time value
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include\ <time.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lchar *strptime(
.nL
	const char *\*Vbuf\*L,
.nL
	const char *\*Vformat\*L,
.nL
	struct tm *\*Vtm\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vbuf\*O"
Contains the character string to be converted by
the \*Lstrptime(\|)\*O function.
.LI "\*Vformat\*O"
Specifies the format of the string to be converted by
the \*Lstrptime(\|)\*O function.
.LI "\*Vtm\*O"
Specifies the structure to contain the output of the
\*Lstrptime(\|)\*O function.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "strptime function"
.iX "converting" "character strings to time values"
The \*Lstrptime(\|)\*O function converts the characters in the \*Vbuf\*O
parameter to values that are stored in the \*Ltm\*O structure,
using the format specified by the \*Vformat\*O parameter.
The \*Lstrptime(\|)\*O function modifies only the fields in the
\*Ltm\*O structure that have corresponding conversion specifications
in the \*Vformat\*O.
.PP
The \*Vformat\*O parameter can contain zero or more of the following items:
.ML
.LI
A conversion specification that directs the conversion of the
next input field. Conversion specifications start with a % (percent sign).
.LI
Any white space character (as determined by the \*Lisspace(\|)\*O
function) that
matches 0 (zero) or more white space characters in the input stream.
.LI
Any character except % (percent sign) or a white space character that
must match the next character in the input stream. If the character
read from the input stream is different from the character in the
\*Vformat\*O parameter, the function stops processing the input stream
and returns a null pointer.
.LE
.PP
The following conversion specifications are supported:
.VL 0.5i
.LI "\*La\*O"
Inputs day of the week, using the locale-dependent
weekday name. The abbreviated or full name may be specified.
.LI "\*LA\*O"
Same as \*La\*O.
.LI "\*Lb\*O"
Inputs the month, using the locale-dependent month
name. The abbreviated or full name may be specified.
.LI "\*LB\*O"
Same as \*Lb\*O.
.LI "\*Lc\*O"
Inputs the date and time, using the locale's default format.
.LI "\*LC\*O"
Inputs the century as a decimal number in the range from 00 to 99.
.LI "\*Ld\*O"
Inputs the day of the month as a decimal number in the range from 01 to 31.
.LI "\*LD\*O"
Inputs the date as \*L%m %d %y\*O.
.LI "\*Le\*O"
Same as \*Ld\*O.
.LI "\*LE\*O"
Inputs the year, using the locale-dependent Emperor/Era name and year format.
.LI "\*Lh\*O"
Same as \*Lb\*O.
.LI "\*LH\*O"
Inputs the hour based on a 24-hour clock as a decimal number
in the range from 00 to 23.
.LI "\*LI\*O"
Inputs the hour based on a 12-hour clock as a decimal number
in the range from 00 to 12.
.LI "\*Lj\*O"
Inputs the day number of the year as a decimal number
in the range from 001 to 366.
.LI "\*Lm\*O"
Inputs the month number as a decimal number in the range from 01 to 12.
.LI "\*LM\*O"
Inputs the minute as a decimal number in the range from 00 to 59.
.LI "\*Ln\*O"
Inputs any white space up to and including a newline character.
.LI "\*LN\*O"
Inputs the Emperor/Era name.
.LI "\*Lo\*O"
Inputs the Emperor/Era year.
.LI "\*Lp\*O"
Inputs the locale-dependent equivalent of AM or PM.
.LI "\*Lr\*O"
Inputs the time as \*L%I:%M:%S %p\*O.
.LI "\*LR\*O"
Inputs the time as \*L%H:%M\*O.
.LI "\*LS\*O"
Inputs the second as a decimal number in the range from 00 to 61.
.LI "\*Lt\*O"
Inputs any white-space up to and including a tab character.
.LI "\*LT\*O"
Inputs the time as \*L%H:%M:%S\*O.
.LI "\*LU\*O"
Inputs the week number of the year as a decimal number
in the range from 00 to 53. Sunday is the first day of the week.
.LI "\*Lw\*O"
Inputs the weekday as a decimal number in the range from 0 to 6.
Sunday is the first day of the week.
.LI "\*LW\*O"
Inputs the week number of the year as a decimal number
in the range from 00 to 53. Monday is the first day of the week.
.LI "\*Lx\*O"
Inputs the date, using the locale-dependent short date format.
.LI "\*LX\*O"
Inputs the time, using the locale -dependent short time format.
.LI "\*Ly\*O"
Inputs the year within the century as a decimal number in the range
from 00 to 99.
.LI "\*LY\*O"
Inputs the year, including the century (for example, 1991).
.LI "\*LZ\*O"
Inputs the time-zone name.
.LI "\*L%\*O"
Inputs a % (percent sign) character.
.LE
.PP
.\" .zA "defect, 8088, R1.1.2, modified directives added"
.SS "Alternative-format Directives"
.if n .PP
The \*LE\*O and \*LO\*O characters can be used with some of the
directives to stipulate that an alternative format be used, if
available.  If the alternative format is not available in the locale,
the modifier will be ignored, and the unmodified behavior for that
directive will be followed.
.PP
.VL 0.5i
.LI "\*LEc\*O"
Inputs the date and time, using the locale-dependent alternative format.
.LI "\*LEC\*O"
Inputs the period, using the locale-dependent alternative format.
.LI "\*LEx\*O"
Inputs the date, using the locale-dependent alternative format.
.LI "\*LEX\*O"
Inputs the time, using the locale-dependent alternative format.
.LI "\*LEy\*O"
Inputs the year within the century, using the locale-dependent
alternative format.
.LI "\*LEY\*O"
Inputs the year (including the century), using the locale-dependent
alternative format.
.LI "\*LOd\*O"
Inputs the day of the month, using the locale-dependent alternative format.
.LI "\*LOe\*O"
Same as \*LOd\*O.
.LI "\*LOH\*O"
Inputs the hour (24-hour clock), using the locale-dependent alternative format.
.LI "\*LOI\*O"
Inputs the hour (12-hour clock), using the locale-dependent
alternative format.
.LI "\*LOm\*O"
Inputs the month number, using the locale-dependent alternative format.
.LI "\*LOM\*O"
Inputs the minute, using the locale-dependent alternative format.
.LI "\*LOS\*O"
Inputs the second, using the locale-dependent alternative format.
.LI "\*LOU\*O"
Inputs the week number (Sunday as first day), using the
locale-dependent alternative format.
.LI "\*LOw\*O"
Inputs the weekday, using the locale-dependent alternative format.
.LI "\*LOW\*O"
Inputs the week number (Monday as first day), using the
locale-dependent alternative format.
.LI "\*LOy\*O"
Inputs the year (offset from %C) in the locale's alternative representation and
using the locale's alternative numeric symbols.
.LE
.\" .zZ "defect, 8088, R1.1.2, modified directives added"
.PP
A directive consisting of white-space characters is performed
by reading input until reaching the first nonwhite-space character,
which is not read, or until no more characters can be read.
.PP
A directive consisting of an ordinary character is performed by
reading the next character from the \*Vbuf\*O parameter. If the
character read from the \*Vbuf\*O parameter differs from the character
comprising the directive, the directive fails and the differing character
and any characters following it remain unread. Case is ignored when
matching \*Vbuf\*O items, such as month or weekday names.
.PP
If a conversion fails, the contents of the \*Ltm\*O structure are undefined.
.PP
In most cases, it is possible to use the same \*Vformat\*O in the
\*Lstrftime(\|)\*O and \*Lstrptime(\|)\*O calls because most of the conversion
specifications formats are identical in both functions.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful competition, the \*Lstrptime(\|)\*O
function returns a pointer to the
character following the last character parsed. Otherwise, a null pointer
is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lscanf\*O(3), \*Lstrfmon\*O(3), \*Lstrftime\*O(3), \*Ltime\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
