.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: strpbrk.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/21 19:36:57 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\" 
.TH strpbrk 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lstrpbrk\*O \- Find one of a set of bytes in a string
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <string.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lchar *strpbrk\*L(\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char\*L *\*Vs1\*L,\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char\*L *\*Vs2\*L);\*L
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vs1\*O"
Specifies a string being searched.
.LI "\*Vs2\*O"
Specifies a set of bytes in a string.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "strpbrk function"
The \*Lstrpbrk(\|)\*O
function scans the string pointed to by the \*Vs1\*O parameter for the first
occurrence of any byte in the string pointed to by the \*Vs2\*O parameter.
The \*Lstrpbrk(\|)\*O function treats the \*Vs2\*O parameter as a
series of bytes and does not search for multibyte characters. The
\*Lwcspbrk(\|)\*O function provides the same
functionality but searches for characters rather than bytes.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lstrpbrk(\|)\*O function returns a
pointer to the matched byte. When no byte in the string pointed to by
the \*Vs2\*O parameter occurs in the string pointed to by the \*Vs1\*O
parameter, a null pointer is returned and the value of \*Lerrno\*O
remains unchanged.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lstring\*O(3),
\*Lwcspbrk\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
