.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: strstr.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/21 19:40:26 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH strstr 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lstrstr\*O \- Finds a substring
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <string.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lchar *strstr\*L(\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char\*L *\*Vs1\*L,\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char\*L *\*Vs2\*L);\*L
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vs1\*O"
Specifies the character string being searched.
.LI "\*Vs2\*O"
Specifies the substring to be located.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "strstr function"
The \*Lstrstr(\|)\*O
function locates the first occurrence in the string pointed to by
the \*Vs1\*O parameter of the sequence of bytes in the string
pointed to by the
\*Vs2\*O parameter, excluding the terminating null character.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lstrstr(\|)\*O function
returns a pointer to the located string or a null
pointer when the string is not found.
When the \*Vs2\*O parameter points to a string having 0 (zero) length,
the \*Lstrstr(\|)\*O
function returns the string pointed to by parameter \*Vs1\*O.
Upon error, a null pointer is returned, and \*Lerrno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lstring\*O(3),
\*Lwcswcs\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
