.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: strspn.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/21 19:39:11 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\" 
.TH strspn 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lstrcspn\*O, \*Lstrspn\*O - Returns length of initial segment of string
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <string.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lsize_t strcspn\*L(\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char *\*Vs1\*L,\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char\*L *\*Vs2\*L);\*L
.sp 0.4v
\*Lsize_t strspn\*L(\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char *\*Vs1\*L,\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char\*L *\*Vs2\*L);\*L
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vs1\*O"
Points to a character string being checked for an initial segment.
.LI "\*Vs2\*O"
Points to a string containing a set of bytes that
define the initial segment.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "strcspn function"
.iX "strspn function"
The \*Lstrspn(\|)\*O
function computes the length of the maximum initial segment of the
string pointed to by the \*Vs1\*O parameter,
which consists entirely of bytes from the string pointed to
by the \*Vs2\*O parameter.
.PP
The \*Lstrcspn(\|)\*O
function computes the byte length of the maximum initial segment of the
string pointed to by the \*Vs1\*O parameter,
which consists entirely of bytes that are \*Enot\*O
from the string pointed to by the \*Vs2\*O parameter.
.PP
The \*Lstrspn(\|)\*O and \*Lstrcspn(\|)\*O functions treat
the \*Vs2\*O parameter as a
series of bytes; these functions do not treat a multibyte character as
a single unit but rather as a series of separate bytes. There are no
equivalent functions for multibyte character strings. The
\*Lwcsspn(\|)\*O and \*Lwcscspn(\|)\*O functions provide the same
functionality for wide character strings.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lstrcspn(\|)\*O, and \*Lstrspn\*O(\|)
functions return the length of the string segment. Otherwise,
a value of -1 cast to \*Lsize_t\*O is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lstring\*O(3),
\*Lwcsspn\*O(3)/\*Lwcscspn\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
