.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: strxfrm.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/21 19:42:21 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH strxfrm 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lstrxfrm\*O \- Transforms string for collation in current locale
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <string.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lsize_t strxfrm\*L(\*L
.nL
	\*Lchar\*L *\*Vs1\*L,\*L
.nL
	\*Lconst char\*L *\*Vs2\*L,\*L
.nL
	\*Lsize_t \*Vn\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vs1\*O"
Specifies the destination string.
.LI "\*Vs2\*O"
Specifies the string to be transformed.
.LI "\*Vn\*O"
Specifies the maximum number of
bytes to store in the transformed string.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "strxfrm function"
The \*Lstrxfrm(\|)\*O function transforms the string pointed to by
the \*Vs2\*O parameter into an internal form suitable for collation
and places the result in the address specified
by \*Vs1\*O. This transformation is performed as appropriate to the
\*LLC_COLLATE\*O category of the current locale.
When the \*Lstrcmp(\|)\*O
function is applied to two transformed strings, a value greater than,
equal to, or less than 0 (zero) is returned. The returned value corresponds
to the same value that is returned when the \*Lstrcoll(\|)\*O
function is applied to the same two original transformed strings.
The transformed string can be longer than the original string.
No more than \*Vn\*O characters are placed in the location pointed to by
the \*Vs1\*O parameter, including the terminating null character.
When \*Vn\*O is 0 (zero), the \*Vs1\*O parameter
can be a null pointer.
When operating on overlapping strings, the behavior of this
function is unreliable.
.SH NOTES
.PP
If you are doing
multiple comparisons using the same set of text strings, the
\*Lstrxfrm(\|)\*O transformation
function in conjunction with the \*Lstrcmp(\|)\*O function
may be more efficient than using the \*Lstrcoll(\|)\*O
collation function because the string is transformed based on the
locale tables only once.  However, the transformation function must convert
all characters in the string for each level of a multi-level
collation. In comparison, the collation function stops comparing
characters at the first inequality. These efficiency tradeoffs make
the most efficient method for a specific application dependent on both
the number of repeated comparisons for each string and the contents of
each string.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the  \*Lstrxfrm(\|)\*O function returns
the number of bytes required to store the fully transformed string. If
this is greater than or equal to the value of the \*Vn\*O parameter,
which specifies the maximum number of bytes that can be stored in
\*Vs1\*O, the contents of \*Vs1\*O are indeterminate.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.\" .zA "defect, 8264, R1.1.2, changed incorrect reference to wcsxfrm to strxfrm"
If the following condition occurs, the \*Lstrxfrm(\|)\*O function sets
\*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value.
.\" .zZ "defect, 8264, R1.1.2, changed incorrect reference to wcsxfrm to strxfrm"
.VL
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vs2\*O parameter
contains codes outside the domain of the collating
sequence defined by the current locale.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lsetlocale\*O(3),
\*Lstrcoll\*O(3),
\*Lstring\*O(3)/\*Lstrcmp\*O(3),
\*Lwcsxfrm\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
