.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: subwin.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/15 23:24:39 $
.\"
.TH subwin 3
.SH NAME
\*Lsubwin\*O \- Creates a subwindow
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O

\*LWINDOW \(**\*Vsubwin\*L(\*Vorig\*L, \*Vnlines\*L, \*Vncols\*L, \*Vbegin_y\*L, \*Vbegin_x\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vorig\*L;
    int \*Vnlines\*L, \*Vncols\*L, \*Vbegin_y\*L, \*Vbegin_x\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "subwin subroutine"
This routine creates a new sub-window within a window.
The dimensions of the sub-window are \*Lnlines\*O lines
and \*Lncols\*O columns. The sub-window is at position
(\*Lbegin_y\*O, \*Lbegin_x\*O) on the screen.
This position is relative to the screen and not to the window
\*Lorig\*O.
.PP
The sub-window is made in the middle of the window \*Lorig\*O,
so that changes made to either window will affect both.
When using this routine, it will often be necessary to call
\*Ltouchwin\*O before calling \*Lwrefresh\*O.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On success, the \*Lsubwin\*O function returns a pointer
to the new WINDOW structure created.  On failure,
the function returns a null pointer.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Ltouchwin\*O(3), \*Lwrefresh\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
