.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: swab.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/27 18:41:50 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.\"
.TH swab 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lswab\*O \- Swaps bytes
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.\" .zA "defect, 6939, R1.1.1:  Added library line for sys5 swab."
.nL
System V Compatibility Library (\*Llibsys5.a\*O)
.\" .zZ "defect, 6939, R1.1.1:  Added library line for sys5 swab."
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <unistd.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lvoid swab(
.nL
        \*Lconst void *\*Vsrc\*L,
.nL
        \*Lvoid *\*Vdest\*L,
.nL
        \*Lsize_t \*Vnbytes\*L\|);
.sE
.\" .zA "defect, 6939, R1.1.1:  Added synopsis for sys5 swab."
.PP
System V compatibility interface:
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <unistd.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lvoid swab(
.nL
        \*Lconst char *\*Vfrom\*L,
.nL
        \*Lchar *\*Vto\*L,
.nL
        \*Lint \*Vnbytes\*L\|);
.sE
.\" .zA "defect, 6939, R1.1.1:  Added synopsis for sys5 swab."
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vsrc\*O"
Points to the location of the string to copy.
.LI "\*Vdest\*O"
Points to the location to which the resulting string is copied.
.LI "\*Vnbytes\*O"
Specifies the number of bytes to be copied.
The \*Vnbytes\*O parameter should have an even value.
When the \*Vnbytes\*O parameter is odd, the \*Lswab(\|)\*O
function uses \*Vnbytes\*O-1 instead.
.\" .zA "defect, 6939, R1.1.1: Added that nbytes must be non-negative for sys5."
For the System V version of the \*Lswab(\|)\*O function, \*Vnbytes\*O
must also be non-negative.  If \*Vnbytes\*O is negative, nothing is
done.
.\" .zZ "defect, 6939, R1.1.1: Added that nbytes must be non-negative for sys5."
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "swab function"
.iX "swapping bytes"
.iX "bytes" "swapping"
The \*Lswab(\|)\*O function copies the number of bytes specified
by the \*Vnbytes\*O parameter from the location pointed
to by the \*Vsrc\*O parameter to the array pointed to by the \*Vdest\*O
parameter, exchanging adjacent bytes. If copying takes place between
objects that overlap, the behavior is undefined.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.\" .zA "defect, 6939, R1.1.1:  Added note about how to link sys5 swab."
To use the System V version of \*Lswab(\|)\*O, you must link with the
\*Llibsys5\*O library before you link with \*Llibc\*O.
.PP
.\" .zZ "defect, 6939, R1.1.1:  Added note about how to link sys5 swab."
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Trial use.
.LE
.\" .ig ++
.\" .SH RETURN VALUES
.\" The \*Lswab(\|)\*O function returns no values.
.\" .++
.EQ
delim off
.EN
