.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sysconf.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/29 22:06:31 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.\"
.TH sysconf 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsysconf\*O \- Gets configurable system variables
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <unistd.h>\*O
.PP
\*Llong sysconf(
.nL
        \*Lint \*Vname\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Specifies the system variable to be queried.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "sysconf function"
.iX "system variables" "retrieving values of"
.iX "configuring system variables"
.iX "retrieving values of system variables"
The \*Lsysconf(\|)\*O function provides a method for determining
the current value of a configurable system limit or whether optional
features are supported.
.PP
The set of system variables from the \*Llimits.h\*O or \*Lunistd.h\*O
include file that are returned by the \*Lsysconf(\|)\*O function,
and the symbolic constants, defined in the \*Lunistd.h\*O header file
that correspond to the \*Vname\*O parameter, are as follows:
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L_AES_OS_VERSION\*O"
The integer value indicating the revision of the AES to which the
implementation is compliant.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_AES_OS_VERSION\*O
.LI "\*LARG_MAX\*O"
The maximum length, in bytes, of the arguments for one of the
\*Lexec\*O functions, including environment data.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_ARG_MAX\*O
.LI "\*LATEXIT_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of functions that can be registered with
\*Latexit(\|)\*O per process.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_ATEXIT_MAX\*O
.LI "\*LBC_BASE_MAX\*O"
The maximum value allowed for the \*Lobase\*O variable with the
\*Lbc\*O command.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_BC_BASE_MAX\*O
.LI "\*LBC_DIM_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of elements permitted in an array by the
\*Lbc\*O command.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_BC_DIM_MAX\*O
.LI "\*LBC_SCALE_MAX\*O"
The maximum value allowed for the \*Lscale\*O variable with the
\*Lbc\*O command.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_BC_SCALE_MAX\*O
.LI "\*LBC_STRING_MAX\*O"
The maximum length of string constants accepted by the \*Lbc\*O
command.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_BC_STRING_MAX\*O
.LI "\*LCHILD_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of simultaneous processes for each real user ID.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_CHILD_MAX\*O
.LI "\*LCLK_TCK\*O"
The number of clock ticks per second.  The value of \*LCLK_TCK\*O
may be variable, and it should not be assumed that \*LCLK_TCK\*O
is a compile-time constant.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_CLK_TCK\*O
.LI "\*LCOLL_WEIGHTS_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of weights that can
be assigned to an entry in the \*LLC_COLLATE\*O locale-dependent
information in a locale-definition file
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_COLL_WEIGHTS_MAX\*O
.LI "\*LDATAKEYS_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of data keys that may be created per
process.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_DATAKEYS_MAX\*O
.LI "\*LEXPR_NEST_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of expressions that can be nested within
parentheses by the
\*Lexpr\*O command.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_EXPR_NEST_MAX\*O
.LI "\*LLINE_MAX\*O"
The maximum length, in bytes, of a command's
input line (either standard input or another file) when the utility
is described as processing text files. The length includes room for
the trailing newline character.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_LINE_MAX\*O
.LI "\*LNGROUPS_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of simultaneous supplementary group IDs for each
process.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_NGROUPS_MAX\*O
.LI "\*LOPEN_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of files that one process can have open at one time.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_OPEN_MAX\*O
.LI "\*LPAGE_SIZE\*O"
The page size granularity for memory regions.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_PAGE_SIZE\*O
.LI "\*LPASS_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of characters returned by \*Lgetpass(\|)\*O,
(not including the terminating null character).
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_PASS_MAX\*O
.LI "\*L_POSIX_JOB_CONTROL\*O"
This variable has a value of 1 if the system supports job control;
otherwise, -1 is returned.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_JOB_CONTROL\*O
.LI "\*L_POSIX_REENTRANT_FUNCTIONS\*O"
This variable has a value of 1 if the system supports
POSIX reentrant functions; otherwise, -1 is returned.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_REENTRANT_FUNCTIONS\*O
.LI "\*L_POSIX_SAVED_IDS\*O"
This variable has a value of 1 if
each process has a saved set user ID and a saved set group ID;
otherwise, -1 is returned.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_SAVED_IDS\*O
.LI "\*L_POSIX_THREADS\*O"
This variable has a value of 1 if the system supports POSIX threads;
otherwise, -1 is returned.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_THREADS\*O
.LI "\*L_POSIX_THREAD_ATTR_STACKSIZE\*O"
This variable has a value of 1 if the system supports
the POSIX threads stack size attribute;
otherwise, -1 is returned.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_THREAD_ATTR_STACKSIZE\*O
.LI "\*L_POSIX_VERSION\*O"
The date of approval of the most current
version of the POSIX 1 standard that the system supports. The
date is a 6-digit number, with the first 4 digits signifying the
year and the last 2 digits the month. Different versions of the POSIX
1 standard are periodically approved by the IEEE Standards Board,
and the date of approval is used to distinguish between different
versions.  If \*L_POSIX_VERSION\*O is defined, it is returned;
otherwise, -1 is returned.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_VERSION\*O
.LI "\*L_POSIX2_C_DEV\*O"
This variable has a value of 1 if the system
supports the optional C Language Development Utilities from POSIX
2; otherwise, -1 is returned.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_2_C_DEV\*O
.LI "\*L_POSIX2_FORT_DEV\*O"
The variable has a value of 1 if the
system supports the FORTRAN Development Utilities Option from POSIX
2; otherwise, -1 is returned.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_2_FORT_DEV\*O
.LI "\*L_POSIX2_FORT_RUN\*O"
The variable has a value of 1 if the
system supports the FORTRAN Runtime Utilities Option from POSIX 2;
otherwise, -1 is returned.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_2_FORT_RUN\*O
.LI "\*L_POSIX2_LOCALEDEF\*O"
The variable has a value of 1 if the
system supports the creation of new locales with the
\*Llocaledef\*O command; otherwise, -1 is returned.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_2_LOCALEDEF\*O
.LI "\*L_POSIX2_SW_DEV\*O"
The variable has a value of 1 if the system supports the Software Development
Utilities Option from POSIX 2; otherwise, -1 is returned.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_2_SW_DEV\*O
.LI "\*L_POSIX2_VERSION\*O"
The date of approval of the most current
version of the POSIX 2 standard that the system supports. The
date is a 6-digit number, with the first 4 digits signifying the
year and the last 2 digits the month. Different versions of the POSIX
2 standard are periodically approved by the IEEE Standards Board,
and the date of approval is used to distinguish between different
versions.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:   \*L_SC_2_VERSION\*O
.LI "\*LRE_DUP_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of repeated occurrences
of a regular expression permitted when using the interval-notation
parameters, such as the \*Lm\*O and \*Ln\*O parameters with
the \*Led\*O command.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_RE_DUP_MAX\*O
.LI "\*LSTREAM_MAX\*O"
The number of streams that one process can have open at one
time.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_STREAM_MAX\*O
.LI "\*LTZNAME_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of bytes supported for the name of a time zone
(not the length of the \*LTZ\*O environmental
variable).
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_TZNAME_MAX\*O
.LI "\*L_XOPEN_VERSION\*O"
An integer indicating
the most current version of the X/OPEN standard that the system
supports.
.IP
Value of \*Vname\*O:  \*L_SC_XOPEN_VERSION\*O
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If the \*Vname\*O parameter is an invalid value, the \*Lsysconf(\|)\*O
function returns a value of \-1, and sets \*Lerrno\*O
to indicate the error.
If the variable corresponding to \*Vname\*O is undefined,
the \*Lsysconf(\|)\*O function
returns a value of \-1 without changing the value of \*Lerrno\*O.
.PP
If the \*Vname\*O
parameter is \*L_SC_JOB_CONTROL\*O or \*L_SC_SAVED_IDS\*O, the \*Lsysconf(\|)\*O
function returns a nonnegative value.
.PP
Otherwise, the \*Lsysconf(\|)\*O
function returns the current variable value on the system.
The value will not change during the lifetime of the calling process.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the following condition occurs, the \*Lsysconf(\|)\*O
function sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.VL
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The value of the \*Vname\*O parameter is invalid.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lpathconf\*O(3).
.PP
Commands:
\*Lgetconf\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
