.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: system.3f,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 13:10:34 $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)system.3f 6.1 (Berkeley) 5/15/85
.\"
.TH system 3f
.SH NAME
system \- execute a UNIX command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B integer function system (string)
.br
.B character*(*) string
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B system
causes
\*Vstring\*O
to be given to your shell
as input as if the string had been typed as a command.
If environment variable
.B SHELL
is found, its value will be used as the command interpreter (shell);
otherwise \*Lsh\*O(1) is used.
.PP
The current process waits until the command terminates.
The returned value will be the exit status of the shell.
See \*Lwait\*O(2) for an explanation of this value.
.SH FILES
.PP
.ie \nM /usr/ucb/lib/libU77.a
.el /usr/lib/libU77.a
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lexec\*O(2), \*Lwait\*O(2), \*Lsystem\*O(3).
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
\*Vstring\*O
can not be longer than NCARGS\-50 characters, as defined in
.RI < sys/param.h >.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
