.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: system.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/12/01 21:30:12 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH system 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsystem\*O \-  \*OExecutes a shell command
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\*OStandard C Library (l\*Libc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <stdio.h>
.nL
\*L#include <stdlib.h>\*O
.sp
\*Lint system (\*O
.nL
        \*Lconst char \(**\*Vstring\*O );\*L
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vstring\*O"
Specifies a valid \*Lsh\*O shell command.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Added the following paragraphs for clarification per QAR 7859.
.IP
If \*Vstring\*O is NULL (0), the \*Lsystem(\|)\*O function tests the
accessibility of the \*Lsh\*O command interpreter.
.IP
If \*Vstring\*O is not NULL, the \*Lsystem(\|)\*O function passes
the parameter to the \*Lsh\*O command, which interprets \*Vstring\*O
as a command and executes it.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "system function"
.iX "executing shell commands"
.iX "shell commands" "executing"
.iX "commands" "executing"
The \*Lsystem(\|)\*O function passes the \*Vstring\*O parameter
to the \*Lsh\*O command, which
interprets \*Vstring\*O as a command and executes it.
.PP
The \*Lsystem(\|)\*O function invokes the \*Lfork(\|)\*O function to
create a child process that in turn uses the\*L exec\*O
function to run \*Lsh\*O, which interprets the shell command
contained in the \*Vstring\*O parameter.  The current process waits
until the shell has completed
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Changed end of sentence per QAR 7859.
before returning.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Changed the following text per QAR 7859.
.\"     Upon successful completion, the \*Lsystem(\|)\*O function returns
.\"     the exit status of the shell.
.\"     Otherwise, the
.\"     \*Lsystem(\|)\*O
.\"     function returns a value of -1 and sets
.\"     \*Lerrno\*O
.\"     to indicate the error.
.\"     End Digital-specific information
If the \*Vstring\*O parameter is NULL, the \*Lsystem(\|)\*O function
returns 0 if it is unable to access the command interpreter or a
positive value if \*Lsh\*O is accessible.
.PP
If the \*Vstring\*O parameter is not NULL, upon successful completion
by \*Lsh\*O, the \*Lsystem(\|)\*O function returns the exit status of
the shell process in the form that \*Lwait\*O(2) returns.  Otherwise,
the \*Lsystem(\|)\*O function returns a value of \-1 and sets
\*Lerrno\*O to indicate the error.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP
Exit status 127 indicates that the shell could not be executed.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding a paragraph per QAR 7859.
.PP
Note that the exit status should only be interpreted using the macros
described in \*Lwait\*O(2) and defined in the \*Lsys/wait.h\*O header file.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the
\*Lsystem(\|)\*O
function fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.VL 1i
.LI "[EAGAIN]"
The system-imposed limit on the total number of processes under
execution, system-wide or by a single user ID, would be exceeded.
.LI "[EINTR]"
The
\*Lsystem(\|)\*O
function was interrupted by a signal which was caught.
.LI "[ENOMEM]"
There is not enough space left for this process.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lexec\*O(2),
\*Lexit\*O(2),
\*Lfork\*O(2),
\*Lwait\*O(2)
.PP
Commands:
\*Lsh\*O(1)
.iX "system function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
