.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: t_accept.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.9.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/27 13:14:43 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH t_accept 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lt_accept\*O \- Accepts a connect request
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
XTI Library (\*Llibxti.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <xti.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lint t_accept(\*O
.wH .ti +0.2i
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vfd\*O,\*L
.wH .ti +0.2i
.nL
	\*Lint \*Vresfd\*O,\*L
.wH .ti +0.2i
.nL
	\*Lstruct t_call *\f2call\fP) ;\*O
.sE
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
The \*Lt_accept\*O(\|) function can only be called in the T_INCON
transport provider state. The following table summarizes the relevance
of input and output parameters before and after \*Lt_accept\*O(\|) is
called:
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Fixed table coding to match Digital style.
.TS 
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB
l l l.
_
.sp 4p
Parameter@Before Call@After Call
.sp 4p
_
.sp 6p
\*Vfd\*O@y@n
\*Vresfd\*O@y@n
\*Vcall\*O->\*Laddr.maxlen\*O@n@n
\*Vcall\*O->\*Laddr.len\*O@y@n
\*Vcall\*O->\*Laddr.buf\*O@o(o)@n
\*Vcall\*O->\*Lopt.maxlen\*O@n@n
\*Vcall\*O->\*Lopt.len\*O@y@n
\*Vcall\*O->\*Lopt.buf\*O@o(o)@n
\*Vcall\*O->\*Ludata.maxlen\*O@n@n
\*Vcall\*O->\*Ludata.len\*O@y@n
\*Vcall\*O->\*Ludata.buf@\*Oo(o)@n
\*Vcall\*O->\*Lsequence\*O@y@n
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
\*LNotes to table:\*O
.RS
.nf
.ta 5
y	This is a meaningful parameter.
n	This is not a meaningful parameter.
o	This is an optional parameter.
(o)	The content of the object pointed to by \*Vo\*O is optional.
.RE
.fi
.\".VL 
.TP
\*Vfd\*O
Specifies a file descriptor returned by the \*Lt_open\*O(\|) function that
identifies the local transport endpoint from which the connect indication
arrived.
.\"from TP "  
.TP
\*Vresfd\*O
Specifies the local transport endpoint where the connection is to be
established. A calling transport user may accept a connection on
either the same, or on a different local transport endpoint than the
one on which the connect indication arrived.
.\"from TP "  
.RS
.PP
Before the connection can be accepted on the same transport endpoint
(\*Vresfd\*O == \*Vfd\*O), the calling transport user must have
responded to any previous connect indications received on that
same transport endpoint using the \*Lt_accept\*O(\|) or
\*Lt_snddis(\|)\*O functions. Otherwise, the \*Lt_accept(\|)\*O
function fails and sets
\*Lt_errno\*O to [TBADF].
.\"from TP "  
.PP
When a different transport endpoint (\*Vresfd\*O != \*Vfd\*O) is
specified, the transport endpoint must be bound to a protocol address with
a call to the \*Lt_bind\*O(\|) function. When the address bound to the
\*Vresfd\*O
parameter
is the same as that bound to the \*Vfd\*O parameter, the
\%\*Vreq\*O->\*Lqlen\*O parameter of \*Lt_bind\*O(\|) must be
set to 0 (zero).
.\"from TP "  
.PP
Also, the transport provider state must be T_IDLE,
(refer to the \*Lt_getstate(\|)\*O function) before the
\*Lt_accept\*O(\|) function
is called. For
both types of transport endpoint, \*Lt_accept\*O(\|) fails and sets
\*Lt_errno\*O to [TLOOK] when there are indications, such as
connect or disconnect, waiting to be received at that endpoint.
.\"from TP "  
.RE
.TP
\*Vcall\*O
Points to a type \*Lt_call\*O structure used to store
information required by the transport provider to complete the
connection. The \*Lt_call\*O structure has the following four members:
.wH .RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.wH .ta 5
.\"from TP .5i"  
.RS
.TP 
\*Lstruct netbuf\ \ \ addr\*O
Specifies a buffer for protocol address information sent by the
calling transport user. The type \*Lnetbuf\*O structure referenced by
this member is defined in the \*Lxti.h\*O include file. This
structure, which is used to define buffer parameters, has the
following members:
.wH .RS  Can not be used in nested lists
.\"from TP .5i"  
.RS
.TP .5i
\*Lunsigned int\ \ \ maxlen\*O
Specifies the maximum byte length of the data buffer.
.\"from TP .5i"  
.TP .5i
\*Lunsigned int\ \ \ len\*O
Specifies the actual byte length of data written to the buffer.
.\"from TP .5i"  
.TP .5i
\*Lchar\ \ \ *buf\*O
Points to the buffer location.
.RE
.wH .RE
.\"from TP .5i"  
.TP
\*Lstruct netbuf\ \ \  opt\*O
Specifies protocol-specific parameters
associated with the calling transport user.
.\"from TP .5i"  
.TP
\*Lstruct netbuf\ \ \ udata\*O
Specifies parameters of user data
returned to the calling transport user from the remote transport user.
.\"from TP .5i"  
.TP
\*Lint\ \ \ sequence\*O
Specifies a unique identification number used to identify the previously
received connect indication.
.RE
.wH .RE
.\"from TP "  
.PP
The values of parameters specified by \*Vcall\*O->\*Lopt\*O and
the syntax of those values are protocol-specific.
.\"from TP "  
.PP
The \%\*Vcall\*O->\*Ludata\*O parameters enable the remote transport
user to send data to the calling transport user. The amount of
user data must not exceed the limits specified by the transport
provider as returned in the \%\*Vinfo\*O->\*Lconnect\*O parameter of the
\*Lt_open\*O(\|) and \*Lt_getinfo(\|)\*O functions. When the
\%\*Vcall\*O->\*Ludata.len\*O parameter is 0 (zero), no data is sent to the
calling transport user.
.\"from TP "  
.PP
Data specified by all \*Vcall\*O->\*Ludata.maxlen\*O parameters are
meaningless.
.\"from TP "  
.PP
The \*Vcall\*O->\*Lsequence\*O parameter is a value
returned by the \*Lt_listen\*O(\|) function that uniquely associates the
response with a previously received connect indication.
.\" .SH "EXAMPLES"
.\" .P
.\" .SH "NOTES"
.\" .P
.\" .sp
.LE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "t_accept"
.iX "XTI" "t_accept function"
The \*Lt_accept(\|)\*O function is an XTI connection-oriented service
function that is issued by
a calling transport user to accept a connect request after a connect
indication has arrived. Structures of types
\*Lt_call\*O and \*Lnetbuf\*O, which are defined in the \*Lxti.h\*O
include file, are used by this function.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. Otherwise, a
value of -1 is returned and \*Lt_errno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH "ERRORS"
.PP
If the \*Lt_accept(\|)\*O function fails, \*Lt_errno\*O
may be set to one of the following:
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[TBADF]"
The \*Vfd\*O or \*Vresfd\*O file descriptor does not refer to
a transport endpoint, or the user is illegally accepting a connection on
the same transport endpoint on which the connect indication arrived.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[TOUTSTATE]" 
The \*Lt_accept\*O(\|) function was called in the wrong sequence at the
transport endpoint referenced by the \*Vfd\*O parameter, or the
transport endpoint
referred to by the \*Vresfd\*O parameter is not in the appropriate state.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[TACCES]" 
The user does not have permission to accept a connection on the
responding transport endpoint or to use the specified options.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[TBADOPT]" 
The specified options were in an incorrect format or contained illegal information.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[TBADDATA]" 
The amount of user data specified was not within the bounds allowed by
the transport provider.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[TBADADDR]" 
The specified protocol address was in an incorrect format
or contained illegal information.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[TBADSEQ]" 
An invalid sequence number was specified.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[TLOOK]" 
An asynchronous event has occurred on the transport endpoint
referenced by the \*Vfd\*O parameter and requires immediate attention.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[TSYSERR]" 
A system error occurred during execution of this function.
.LI "[TNOTSUPPORT]"
This function is not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lt_connect\*O(3),
\*Lt_getstate\*O(3),
\*Lt_listen\*O(3),
\*Lt_open\*O(3),
\*Lt_optmgmt\*O(3),
\*Lt_rcvconnect\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
