.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: t_alloc.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/27 13:15:59 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.TH t_alloc 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lt_alloc\*O \- Allocates a library structure
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
XTI Library (\*Llibxti.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <xti.h>\*O
.sp .4v
\*Lchar *t_alloc(\*O
.wH .ti +0.2i
.nL
	\*Lint \f2fd\f1,\*O
.wH .ti +0.2i
.nL
	\*Lint\*O \*Vstruct_type\*O,\*L
.wH .ti +0.2i
.nL
	\*Lint\*O \*Vfields\*O) ;\*L
.sE 
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
The \*Lt_alloc\*O(\|) function can be called in any transport provider
state except T_UNINIT. (If called in T_UNIT, the function
returns the TBADF error and an invalid \*Vfd\*O).  The following table
summarizes the
relevance of input and output parameters before and after
\*Lt_alloc\*O(\|) is called:
.TS 
center,tab (@);
lb  lb  lb
l  c  c.
Parameters@Before Call@After Call
_
\*Vfd\*O\@y@n
\*Vstruct_type\*O@y@n
\*Vfields\*O@y@n
.TE
\*LNotes to table:\*O
.RS
.nf
.ta 5
y	This is a meaningful parameter.
n	This is not a meaningful parameter.
.RE
.fi
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "\*Vfd\*O"
Specifies a file descriptor that identifies the local transport endpoint.
Because the length of the allocated buffer is based
on size information that is returned to the user on a call to the
\*Lt_open\*O(\|) and \*Lt_getinfo\*O(\|) functions, the \*Vfd\*O parameter
must refer to the transport endpoint through which a
newly allocated structure passes.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "\*Vstruct_type\*O" 
Specifies the structure type for the function for which memory is to be
allocated; the \*Vstruct_type\*O parameter must specify  one of the symbolic
names listed
in the Symbolic Name column of the following table.
.TS 
center, tab (@);
lb  lb  lb
l   lb  lb.
Symbolic Name@Structure Type@Using Function
_
T_BIND_STR@struct t_bind@t_bind(\|)
T_CALL_STR@struct t_call@T{
t_accept(\|), t_connect(\|), t_listen(\|),
t_rcvconnect(\|), t_snddis(\|)
T}
T_OPTMGMT_STR@struct t_optmgmt@t_optmgmt(\|)
T_DIS_STR@struct t_discon@t_rcvdis(\|)
T_UNITDATA_STR@struct t_unitdata@T{
t_rcvudata(\|), t_sndudata(\|)
T}
T_UDERROR_STR@struct t_uderr@t_rcvuderr(\|)
T_INFO_STR@struct t_info@t_info(\|)
.TE
.\"from TP "  
.PP
The structures listed in the Structure Type column of the preceding
table are referenced as a parameter in one or more of the various XTI
transport service functions. Each structure type,
except \*Lstruct t_info\*O, contains at least one member of structure type
\*Lstruct netbuf\*O, which is defined in the \*Lxti.h\*O include
file.
For each structure type in the preceding table, you may specify
that the buffer for the \*Lstruct netbuf\*O member should
be allocated as well. The length of the buffer allocated for the
referenced structure member depends on protocol-specific size limits returned
as \*Vinfo\*O member information of the \*Lt_open\*O(\|) and
\*Lt_getinfo\*O(\|) functions. Refer to the description of the
\*Vfields\*O parameter for the relevant sizes returned in \*Vinfo\*O.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "\*Vfields\*O" 
Specifies buffers for \*Lt_info\*O type structures that are allocated
for members of structures named by the \*Vstruct_type\*O parameter for
a given function. The following table lists the symbolic name that
must be specified for the \*Vfields\*O parameter, identifies the \*Lt_info\*O
structure member that is the source of relevant size information, and
lists the XTI function structure reference for which \*Lt_info\*O
Member memory space is reserved.  The value of this parameter must
be the bitwise logical OR of any of the symbolic names listed in the
Symbol Name column.
.TS 
center, tab (@);
lb  lb  lbw(2.5i)
lb  lb  lb
l   lb  l.
Symbol@t_info@Structure
Name@Member@Reference
_
T_ADDR@addr@T{
.wH .na
Member \*Laddr\*O of structures \*Lt_bind\*O, \*Lt_call\*O, \*Lt_unitdata\*O, \*Lt_underr\*O.
T}
.sp 3p
T_OPT@options@T{
.wH .na
Member \*Lopt\*O of structures \*Lt_optmgmt\*O, \*Lt_call\*O,
\*Lt_unitdata\*O, \*Lt_underr\*O.
T}
.sp 3p
T_UDATA@tsdu@T{
.wH .na
Member \*Ludata\*O of structures \*Lt_call\*O, \*Lt_discon\*O,
\*Lt_unitdata\*O.
T}
.sp 3p
@@T{
.wH .na
For \*Vstruct_type\*O T_CALL_STR, size is the greater
value of members \*Lconnect\*O and \*Ldiscon\*O of structure \*Lt_info\*O.
T}
.sp 3p
@@T{
.wH .na
For \*Vstruct_type\*O T_DIS_STR, size is the value of member
\*Ldiscon\*O of structure \*Lt_info\*O.
T}
.sp 3p
@@T{
.wH .na
For \*Vstruct_type\*O T_UNITDATA_STR, size is the value of member
\*Ltsdu\*O of structure \*Lt_info\*O.
T}
.sp 3p
T_ALL@addr, options,@
@tsdu@T{
.wH .na
All relevant members of the specified structures.
T}
.TE
.\" Members that are not
.\" supported by the transport provider specified by parameter \*Vfd\*O
.\" are not allocated (the value ofthe \*Lt_info\*O structure member
.\" is <= 0).
.PP
For each field type specified by the \*Vfields\*O parameter, the
\*Lt_alloc\*O(\|) function reserves function
memory for the associated buffer.
Additionally, its \*Llen\*O member is set to 0 (zero) and its \*Lbuf\*O
pointer and \*Lmaxlen\*O members are initialized.
.LE 
.PP
When the size value associated with
any specified \*Lt_info\*O structure member is -1 or -2 (see
the \*Lt_open\*O(\|) or \*Lt_getinfo\*O(\|) functions), the
\*Lt_alloc\*O(\|) function can not determine
the size of the buffer, causing failure. On failure,
\*Lt_errno\*O
is set to [TSYSERR] and \*Lerrno\*O is set to
[EINVAL]. For any structure member not specified by this
parameter, its
\*Lbuf\*O
member is set to the null pointer and its
\*Lmaxlen\*O
member is set to 0 (zero).
.\" .SH "EXAMPLES"
.\" .P
.\" .SH "NOTES"
.\" .P
.\" .sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "t_alloc function"
.iX "XTI" "t_alloc function"
The \*Lt_alloc(\|)\*O XTI memory utility function is used to
dynamically allocate
memory for structures required by various XTI transport interface
functions. The structure to allocate is specified by a structure
symbolic name used as a mnemonic. In most cases, the mnemonic is similar
to the name of the corresponding function in which the structure is used.
.PP
The \*Lt_alloc\*O(\|) function allocates memory for the named
structure as well as for other buffers referenced by the named
structure. Use of this function to allocate structures ensures
compatibility with the corresponding XTI transport interface
functions in which the allocated structures are used.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion, this function returns a pointer to the newly
allocated structure.  Upon failure, a null pointer is returned.
.SH "ERRORS"
.PP
If the \*Lt_alloc(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lt_errno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.PP
.\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "[TBADF]"
The \*Vfd\*O file descriptor does not refer to a valid transport endpoint.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[TSYSERR]" 
A system error occurred during execution of this function.
.\"from TP "  
.LI "[TNOSTRUCTYPE]" 
An unsupported structure type is specified.
.LI "[TNOTSUPPORT]"
This function is not supported by the current implementation
of XTI.
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lt_free\*O(3),
\*Lt_getinfo\*O(3),
\*Lt_open\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
