.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: t_close.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/27 13:17:54 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH t_close 3
.SH NAME
\*Lt_close\*O \- Closes a transport endpoint.
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
XTI Library (\*Llibxti.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L#include <xti.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint t _close(\*O
.nL
\*Lint \*Vfd\*L) ;\*O
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The \*Lt_close\*O(\|) function is intended to be called in the
T_UNBND transport provider state (see the DESCRIPTION section). The
following table summarizes
the relevance of the input parameter before and after \*Lt_close\*O(\|)
is called:
.sp
.TS
tab (@);
lb  lb  lb
c   c   c.
Parameter@Before Call@After Call
_
.sp
\*Vfd\*O@y@n
.sp
.TE
\*LNotes to table:\*O
.VL 4m
.LI "y"
This is a meaningful parameter.
.LI "n"
This is not a meaningful parameter.
.LI "\*Vfd\*O"
Specifies a file descriptor returned by the \*Lt_open\*O(\|) function that
identifies a local transport endpoint.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "t_close function"
.iX "XTI" "t_close"
.iX "networking" "t_close"
.iX "close endpoint"
.iX "endpoint" "close"
The \*Lt_close(\|)\*O XTI function is used in connection-oriented and
connectionless
transport service to inform a transport provider that the transport
user has finished with the transport endpoint. The transport endpoint
is specified by a file descriptor previously returned by the
\*Lt_open\*O(\|) function. The \*Lt_close\*O(\|) function frees any
local library resources associated with the transport endpoint referenced
by the file descriptor.
.PP
The \*Lt_close\*O(\|) function does not check state information (see the
\*Lt_getstate\*O(\|) function). Consequently, \*Lt_close\*O(\|)
may be called in any transport provider state to close an open transport
endpoint. When \*Lt_close\*O(\|) executes, local library resources
associated with the transport endpoint are automatically freed. In
addition, a \*Lclose\*O(\|)
function is called for the referenced file
descriptor.  The \*Lclose(\|)\*O function aborts when there are
no other file descriptors, in the current or any other process, that
reference the same transport endpoint.  When \*Lclose(\|)\*O aborts,
any connection that is associated with that transport endpoint is broken.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. Otherwise, a
value of \-1 is returned and \*Lt_errno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lt_close(\|)\*O function fails, \*Lt_errno\*O may be set to
the following value:
.VL
.LI "[TBADF]"
File descriptor \*Vfd\*O does not refer to a valid transport endpoint.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lt_getstate\*O(3),
\*Lt_open\*O(3),
\*Lt_unbind\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
