.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: t_error.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/27 13:20:26 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH t_error 3
.SH NAME
.PP
t_error \- Produces error message
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
XTI Library (\f3libxti.a\f1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
.B #include <xti.h>
.PP
.B int t_error(
.ti +0.2i
.B char \f2*errmsg\f1) ;
.ti +0.2i
.B extern char *t_errlist\f1[\|] ;
.ti +0.2i
.B extern int t_nerr ;
.fi
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
The \f3t_errno\fP(\|) function can be called in any transport provider state
except T_UNINIT. The following table summarizes the relevance of
input parameter data before and after \f3t_error\fP(\|) is called:
.sp
.TS
center, tab (@);
lb  lb  lb
l  c  c.
Parameter@Before Call@After Call
_
.sp .4v
\f2errmsg\fP@y@n
.sp .4v
.TE
\f3Notes to table:\f1
.RS
.nf
.ta 5
y	This is a meaningful parameter.
n	This is not a meaningful parameter.
.fi
.RE
.TP 1i
.I errmsg
Points to a user-supplied error message 
character string that lends proper context to the nature of the 
detected error.
.PP
.ig ++
If a \f3t_connect(\|)\fP function fails on transport endpoint fd2
because a bad address was given, the following call might follow the
failure:
	t_error("t_connect failed on fd2"); 
The diagnostic message to be printed would look like this:
		t_connect failed on fd2:	
Incorrect transport address format where "Incorrect transport address
format" identifies the specific error that occurred, and "t_connect
failed on fd2" tells the user which function failed on which transport
endpoint.
.++
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "t_error function"
.iX "XTI" "t_error function"
The \f3t_error(\|)\f1 function is a general utility function used to
produce an error
message on the standard error output device. The error message
describes the last error encountered during execution of an XTI function.
The user-supplied error message is printed, followed by a colon and a
standard error message for the current error defined in \f3t_errno\fP.
When \f3t_errno\fP is [TSYSERR], \f3t_error(\|)\fP also prints a
standard error message for the current value contained in \f3errno\fP.
The error number, \f3t_errno\f1, is set only when an error occurs and 
is not cleared when XTI functions execute successfully.
.PP
.ne 3i
To simplify variant formatting of messages, the array of message 
strings named \f2t_errlist\fP is specified. Variable \f3t_errno\fP 
may be used as an index into this table to get a relevant message 
string without an ending newline character. External variable \f3t_nerr\fP 
specifies the maximum number of messages in the \f2t_errlist\fP table.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. Otherwise, a
value of -1 is returned and \f3t_errno\f1 is set to indicate an error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \f3t_error(\|)\f1 function fails, \f3t_errno\fP is set to
the following value:
.VL
.LI "[TNOTSUPPORT]"
This function is not supported on the current implementation of XTI.
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Functions:
.BR t_accept (3),
.BR t_alloc (3),
.BR t_bind (3),
.BR t_close (3),
.BR t_connect (3),
.BR t_free (3),
.BR t_getinfo (3),
.BR t_getstate (3),
.BR t_listen (3),
.BR t_look (3),
.BR t_open (3),
.BR t_optmgmt (3),
.BR t_rcv (3),
.BR t_rcvconnect (3),
.BR t_rcvdis (3),
.BR t_rcvrel (3),
.BR t_rcvudata (3),
.BR t_rcvuderr (3),
.BR t_snd (3),
.BR t_snddis (3),
.BR t_sndrel (3),
.BR t_sndudata (3),
.BR t_sync (3),
.BR t_unbind (3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
