.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: t_free.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/27 13:21:23 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH t_free 3
.SH NAME
.PP
t_free \- Frees a library structure
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
XTI Library (\f3libxti.a\f1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
.B #include <xti.h>
.PP
.B int t_free(
.ti +0.2i
.B char \f2*ptr\f1,
.ti +0.2i
.B int \f2struct_type\f1) ;
.PP
.fi
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
The \f3t_free\f1(\|) function can be called in all transport provider
states. The following table summarizes the
relevance of input parameter data before and after \f3t_free\f1(\|) is
called:
.sp
.TS
center, tab (@);
lb  lb  lb
l  c  c.
Parameters@Before Call@After Call
_
\f2ptr\fP@y@n
\f2struct_type\fP@y@n
.TE
\f3Notes to table:\f1
.RS
.nf
.ta 5
y	This is a meaningful parameter.
n	This is not a meaningful parameter.
.fi
.RE
.TP 1i
.I ptr
Points to one of the seven structure types described
for structures previously named by the \f2struct_type\fP parameter of the
\f3t_alloc(\|)\fP function, listed below.
.sp
.ne 3i
.TP
.I struct_type
Specifies the structure type for functions for which memory was
previously allocated. This parameter must be one of the symbolic
names listed in the following table:
.sp
.ne 6i
.in -1i
.TS
center,tab (@);
lb  lb  lb
l lb lb.
Symbolic Name@Structure@Using Function
_
T_BIND_STR@struct t_bind@t_bind(\|)
BT_CALL_STR@struct t_call@T{
t_accept(\|), t_connect(\|), t_listen(\|),
t_rcvconnect(\|), t_snddis(\|)
T}
T_OPTMGMT_STR@struct t_optmgmt@t_optmgmt(\|)
T_DIS_STR@struct t_discon@t_rcvdis(\|)
T_UNITDATA_STR@struct t_unitdata@T{
t_rcvudata(\|), t_sndudata(\|)
T}
T_UDERROR_STR@struct t_uderr@t_rcvuderr(\|)
T_INFO_STR@struct t_info@t_info(\|)
.TE
.in
.sp
.TP
\0
Any structure symbolic name listed in the preceding table may be used
as an argument to deallocate previously reserved
memory. Each of the structures, except \f3t_info\f1, contains at least
one member of type \f3struct netbuf\f1 structure, which is defined in
the \f3xti.h\f1 include file.
.TP
\0
This function checks all members of a \f3netbuf\f1 structure and
deallocates those buffers.
When a \f3netbuf\f1 structure \f3buf\f1 parameter is a null
pointer, no memory is deallocated.  After all buffers are deallocated,
this function frees all memory referenced by the \f2ptr\f1 parameter.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "t_free function"
.iX "XTI" "t_free"
.iX "networking" "t_free"
.iX "deallocate memory"
.iX "memory" "free"
The \f3t_free(\|)\f1 function is an XTI general utility function used
to deallocate memory
buffers previously allocated with the \f3t_alloc\f1(\|) function. When
executed, \f3t_free\f1(\|) deallocates memory for the
named structure and for any buffers referenced by the named structure. When 
\f3t_free\f1(\|) is executed, undefined results are obtained when structure
pointers or buffer pointers point to memory blocks not previously
allocated with the \f3t_alloc(\|)\fP function.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. Otherwise, a
value of -1 is returned and \f3t_errno\fP is set to indicate the error.
.SH "ERRORS"
.PP
.br
If the \f3t_free(\|)\f1 function fails, \f3t_errno\fP may be set to
the following value:
.TP 1i
[TNOTSUPPORT]
This function is not supported by the current implementation of XTI.
.TP 1i
[TSYSERR]
A system error occurred during execution of this function.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Functions:
.BR t_alloc (3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
