.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: t_getstate.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/27 13:23:12 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH t_getstate 3
.SH NAME
.PP
t_getstate \- Gets the current state of the transport provider
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
XTI Library (\f3libxti.a\f1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
.B "#include <xti.h>"
.PP
.B int t_getstate(
.ti +0.2i
.B int \f2fd\f1) ;
.PP
.fi
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
The \f3t_getstate\f1(\|) function can be called in all transport
provider states except T_UNINIT. The following table summarizes
the relevance of input parameter data before and after the
\f3t_getstate\f1(\|) function is called:
.sp
.TS
center, tab (@);
lb  lb lb 
c  c  c.
Parameter@Before Call@After Call
_
.sp .3v
\f2fd\fP@y@n
.sp .3v
.TE
\f3Notes to Table:\f1
.RS
.nf
.ta 5
y	This is a meaningful parameter.
n	This is not a meaningful parameter.
.RE
.fi
.TP 1i
.I fd
Specifies a file descriptor returned by the \f3t_open\f1(\|) function that
identifies the local transport endpoint.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "t_getstate function"
.iX "XTI" "t_getstate function"
The \f3t_getstate(\|)\f1 function is a general utility function used
to get the current state of
the transport provider. The transport endpoint, which is specified by
a file descriptor, is regarded as a finite-state machine that may be
in any one of eight states. 
When the \f3t_getstate\f1(\|) function is executed, the
current state of the transport endpoint is returned.
.SH NOTES
.PP
If the transport provider is undergoing a change in state when 
\f3t_getinfo\f1(\|) is called, a failure occurs.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
Upon successful completion, the transport endpoint state is returned
Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned and \f3t_errno\fP is set to
indicate the error. The current state is one of the following:
.TP 1i
[T_UNBND]
Address not bound to transport endpoint.
.TP
[T_IDLE]
The transport endpoint is inactive.
.TP
[T_OUTCON]
Outgoing connection pending.
.TP
[T_INCON]
Incoming connection pending.
.TP
[T_DATAXFER]
Data transfer in progress.
.TP
[T_OUTREL]
Outgoing orderly release (waiting for an orderly release indication).
.TP
[T_INREL]
Incoming orderly release (waiting to send an orderly release request).
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \f3t_getstate(\|)\f1 function fails, \f3t_errno\fP may be set to one
of the following values:
.TP 1i
[TBADF]
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
This error may be returned when the endpoint referenced by the
\f2fd\f1 parameter has
been previously closed or an erroneous file descriptor value has been
provided.
.TP
[TNOTSUPPORT]
This function is not supported by the current implementation of XTI.
.TP
[TSTATECHNG]
The transport provider is undergoing a change in state. 
.TP
[TSYSERR]
A system error occurred during execution of this function.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
