.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: t_look.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/27 13:25:02 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH t_look 3
.SH NAME
\*Lt_look\*O \- Looks at the current event on a transport endpoint.
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
XTI Library (\*Llibxti.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <xti.h>\\*O
.PP
\*Lint t_look(
.nL
\*Lint \*Vfd\*O) ;
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The \*Lt_look\*O(\|) function can be called in all transport provider
states except T_UNINIT. The following table summarizes the
relevance of the \*Vfd\*O parameter when \*Lt_look\*O(\|) is called:
.sp
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB
c  c  c.
Parameter@Before Call@After Call
_
.sp
\*Vfd\*O@y@n
.sp
_
.TE
\*LNotes to Table\*O
.VL 4m
.LI "y"
This is a meaningful parameter.
.LI "n"
This is not a meaningful parameter.
.LI "\*Vfd\*O"
Specifies a file descriptor returned by the \*Lt_open\*O(\|) function that
identifies the local transport endpoint.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "t_look function"
.iX "XTI" "t_look"
.iX "networking" "t_look"
.iX "event" "look"
.iX "endpoint" "event"
The \*Lt_look(\|)\*O XTI function is used in connectionless and
connection-oriented
transport service to monitor the current event at the transport
endpoint specified by a file descriptor previously returned by the
\*Lt_open\*O(\|) function. The \*Lt_look\*O(\|) function permits a transport
provider to notify a transport user of any one of the nine asynchronous
events listed in the \*LRETURN VALUE\*O section when the transport user is
calling other XTI functions in synchronous mode.
.PP
During synchronous operation, all events at a transport endpoint are
saved by XTI so that any current event may be known to a transport
user. Each of the nine asynchronous events listed under the \*LRETURN
VALUE\*O section
is defined by a symbolic name in the \*Lxti.h\*O include file. This
symbolic name can be retrieved when the \*Lt_look\*O(\|) function is called.
.PP
Some XTI functions fail unconditionally when they are called because
the current event at the transport endpoint does not permit them to
successfully execute. Four of the nine synchronous events listed in the
Event column of the following table cause
unconditional failure when any function listed in the Immediate
T_LOOK Functions column is called. Any of these
four synchronous events requires that the transport user be immediately
notified. Unconditional failure returns a [T_LOOK] error during
execution of the currently called function or the next called
function when it is executed.  This function can then be used to
determine which event occurred.
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB
lfHB lfHB lfHB
l  l  l.
@Immediate T_LOOK@
Event@Functions@Event Description
_
.sp
T_LISTEN@T{
t_accept(\|), t_connect(\|)*, t_unbind(\|)
T}@T{
Connection indication received
T}
.sp
T_DISCONNECT@T{
t_accept(\|), t_connect(\|),
t_listen(\|)**, t_rcv(\|),
t_rcvconnect(\|), t_rcvrel(\|), t_snd(\|),
t_sndrel(\|)
T}@T{
Disconnect received
T}
.sp
T_UDERR@T{
t_rcvudata(\|), t_sndudata(\|)
T}@T{
Datagram error indication
T}
.sp
T_ORDREL@T{
t_rcvudata(\|), t_sndudata(\|)
T}@T{
Orderly release indication
T}
.sp
_
.TE
.PP
\*LNotes to Table\*O
.VL 3m
.LI "*"
Connection indication received at a transport endpoint which has been
bound with \*Lqlen\*O > 0 (zero) and for which a connection indication
is pending (refer to the \*Lt_bind\*O(\|) function).
.LI "**"
Disconnect for an outstanding
connect indication.
.LE
.PP
When multiple events occur, the order in which their value is returned
is implementation dependent. All together, there are 11 XTI functions
that fail when a particular synchronous event requiring immediate
notification is detected.
.PP
The following table lists transport endpoint events and corresponding
functions to which a [T_LOOK] error is immediately returned when
the event causes function failure:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB
lfHB lfHB lfHB
l  l  l.
Event@Cleared with@Event Consuming Functions
@T_LOOK?
_
.sp
T_LISTEN@No@t_listen(\|)
.sp
T_CONNECT@No@t_rcvconnect(\|)
.sp
T_DATA@No@t_rcv(\|),\ t_rcvudata(\|)
.sp
T_EXDATA@No@t_rcv(\|)
.sp
T_DISCONNECT@No@t_rcvdis(\|)
.sp
T_UDERR@No@t_rcvuderr(\|)
.sp
T_ORDREL@No@t_rcvrel(\|)
.sp
T_GODATA@Yes@t_snd(\|), t_sndudata(\|)
.sp
T_GOEXDATA@Yes@t_snd(\|)
.sp
_
.TE
.PP
An event at a transport endpoint remains outstanding until a consuming
function clears it. Every event has an associated consuming function
that handles the event and clears it. The Event Consuming
Function column of the preceding table lists these events and the
function that clears each one when successfully executed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lt_look\*O(\|) function returns one of the
following values.  Upon failure,
0 (zero) is returned.
.VL
.LI "[T_LISTEN]"
Connect indication received.
.LI "[T_CONNECT]"
Connect confirmation received.
.LI "[T_DATA]"
Normal data received.
.LI "[T_EXDATA]"
Expedited data received.
.LI "[T_DISCONNECT]"
Disconnect received.
.LI "[T_UDERR]"
Datagram error indication.
.LI "[T_ORDREL]"
Orderly release indication.
.LI "[T_GODATA]"
Flow control restrictions on normal data flow have been lifted.
Normal data may be sent again.
.LI "[T_GOEXDATA]"
Flow control restrictions on expedited data flow have been lifted.
Expedited data may be sent again.
.LE
.PP
Upon failure, the value -1 is returned and \*Lt_errno\*O is set to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lt_look(\|)\*O function fails, \*Lt_errno\*O is set to one of
the following values:
.VL 4m
.LI "[TBADF]"
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.LI "[TSYSERR]"
A system error occurred during execution of this function.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lt_bind\*O(3),
\*Lt_connect\*O(3),
\*Lt_listen\*O(3),
\*Lt_open\*O(3),
\*Lt_rcv\*O(3),
\*Lt_rcvconnect\*O(3),
\*Lt_rcvdis\*O(3),
\*Lt_rcvrel\*O(3),
\*Lt_rcvudata\*O(3),
\*Lt_rcvuderr\*O(3),
\*Lt_snd\*O(3),
\*Lt_sndudata\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
