.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: t_optmgmt.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.8.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/27 13:26:53 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH t_optmgmt 3
.SH NAME
.PP
t_optmgmt \- Manages protocol options for a transport endpoint
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
XTI Library (\f3libxti.a\f1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f3#include <xti.h>\fP
.PP
.B int t_optmgmt(
.ti +0.2i
.B int 
\f2fd\f1, 
.ti +0.2i
\f3struct t_optmgmt \f2*req\f1,
.ti +0.2i
\f3struct t_optmgmt \f2*ret\f1) ;
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
The \f3t_optmgmt\f1(\|) function can only be called 
in the T_IDLE transport provider state.
The following table summarizes the relevance of input and
output parameters before and after \f3t_optmgmt(\|)\f1 is called:
.sp
.TS
center,tab(@);
lb  cb  cb.
\f3Parameter@\f3Before Call@\f3After Call
_
\f2fd\fP@\fPy@\fPn
\f2req\fP->\f3opt.maxlen\fP@\fPn@\fPn
\f2req\fP->\f3opt.len\fP@\fPy@\fPn
\f2req\fP->\f3opt.buf\fP@\fPy(y)@\fPn
\f2req\fP->\f3flags\fP@\fPy@\fPn
\f2ret\fP->\f3opt.maxlen\fP@\fPy@\fPn
\f2ret\fP->\f3opt.len\fP@\fPn@\fPy
\f2ret\fP->\f3opt.buf\fP@\fPy@\fP(y)
\f2ret\fP->\f3flags\fP@\fPn@\(em\fP
.TE
\f3Notes to Table:\f1
.RS
.nf
.ta 5
y	This a meaningful parameter.
n	This is not a meaningful parameter.
(y)	The content of the object pointed to by \f2y\f1 is meaningful.
.fi
.RE
.TP
\f2fd\f1
Specifies a file descriptor returned by \f3t_open\f1(\|) function that
identifies
the local transport endpoint.
.sp
.ne 3i
.TP
\f2req\f1
Points to a type \f3t_optmgmt\f1 structure. This structure is used 
to reserve space for a transport-user options data buffer that stores  
negotiable protocol options. The type \f3t_optmgmt\f1 structure has the 
following members:
.RS 
.TP .5i
\f3struct netbuf\ \ \ opt\f1
Specifies a buffer for
protocol-optional parameters associated with the referenced transport
endpoint. The type \f3netbuf\f1 structure pointed to by this member is
defined in the \f3xti.h\f1 include file. This structure, which is
used to define buffer parameters, has the following members:
.RS
.TP .5i
\f3unsigned int\ \ \ maxlen\f1
Specifies maximum byte length of the data buffer.
.TP
\f3unsigned int\ \ \ len\f1
Specifies the actual byte length of data written to the buffer.
.TP
\f3char\ \ \ *buf
Points to the buffer location.
.RE
.TP .5i
\f3flags\f1 
A longword (least significant bit rightmost) that 
specifies the response action that must be taken by a transport provider 
when the \f3t_optmgmt\f1(\|) function is processed. Corresponding
values and symbolic
names for the following flag bits are defined in the \f3xti.h\f1 
include file.  Note that the \f2flags\f1 parameter can specify only one of
these values, not
a combination.
.RE
.sp
.in -.5i
.ne 6i
.TS
center, tab (@);
lb lb  lb
cw(.5i)  l  lw(3i) .
Bit@Symbolic Name@Meaning
_
.sp 3p
2@T_NEGOTIATE@T{
The transport user wants to negotiate the
values of the options stored in the options buffer. In response, the
transport provider evaluates the options and writes
acceptable (negotiated) values to the data buffer pointed to by
\%\f2ret\fP->\&\f3opt.buf\fP.
T}
.sp 3p
3@T_CHECK@T{
The transport user wants to verify that the
options specified in the data buffer pointed to by
\%\f2req\fP->\&\f3opt.buf\fP are supported by the transport provider. On
return, the transport provider writes a \%\f2ret\fP->\&\f3flags\fP>
value, which is either T_SUCCESS or T_FAILURE.
T}
.sp 3p
4@T_DEFAULT@T{
The transport user wants to know what the default
options supported by the transport provider are. The transport provider
writes default data into the options data buffer pointed to by
\%\f2ret\fP->\&\f3opt.buf\fP.  The
\%\f2req\fP->\&\f3opt.len\fP parameter must be set to 0 (zero). The
\%\f2req\fP->\&\f3opt.buf\fP member may be set to its null value.
T}
.TE
.TP
.I ret
Points to a second type \f3t_optmgmt\fP structure.
The \%\f2ret\f1->\&\f3opt.maxlen\fP parameter specifies the maximum length of
the transport provider options data buffer. The
\%\f2ret\f1->\&\f3opt.len\f1 parameter
specifies the actual length of the transport provider options data
buffer. The \%\f2ret\f1->\&\f3opt.buf\f1 parameter 
points to the transport provider options data buffer. On return, if
T_CHECK was specified in \%\f2req\f1->\&\f3flags\f1,
the \%\f2ret\f1->\&\f3flags\f1 parameter is set to T_SUCCESS or
T_FAILURE, indicating whether the transport
provider supports the options specified by the transport user.
.sp
.ne 3i
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "t_optmgmt function"
.iX "XTI" "t_optmgmt function"
The \f3t_optmgmt(\|)\f1 XTI function is used in connectionless and
connection-oriented
transport service. The \f3t_optmgmt\f1(\|) function associates specific 
optional parameters with a
bound transport endpoint previously defined by a file descriptor
returned by the \f3t_open\f1(\|) function. The \f3t_optmgmt\f1(\|) function
permits a
transport user to retrieve, verify, or negotiate desired options with a
transport provider.
.PP
A type \f3t_optmgmt\f1 structure defined in the \f3xti.h\f1 include
file is used to specify options.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned.  Otherwise, a
value of -1 is returned and \f3t_errno\f1 is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \f3t_optmgmt(\|)\f1 function fails, \f3t_errno\f1 may be set to
one of the following values:
.TP 1i
[TBADF]
File descriptor \f2fd\f1 does not refer to a valid transport endpoint.
.TP
[TOUTSTATE]
This function was called in the wrong sequence.
.TP
[TBADOPT]
The specified protocol options are either of an incorrect format or
contain illegal information.
.TP
[TBADFLAG]
The specified flag is invalid.
.TP
[TACCES]
The transport user does not have permission to negotiate the specified options.
.TP
[TBUFOVFLW]
The number of bytes allowed for an incoming argument is not sufficient
to store the value of that argument.  The information intended for the
data buffer
pointed to by the \f2ret\fP parameter is discarded.
.TP
[TSYSERR]
A system error occurred during execution of the \f3t_optmgmt\f1(\|) function.
.TP
[TNOTSUPPORT]
This function is not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Functions:
.BR t_accept (3),
.BR t_alloc (3),
.BR t_connect (3),
.BR t_getinfo (3),
.BR t_listen (3),
.BR t_open (3),
.BR t_rcvconnect (3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
