.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: t_rcvdis.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/27 13:29:36 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.\" Recoded entire page to fix multitude of font problems
.TH t_rcvdis 3
.SH NAME
.PP
t_rcvdis \- Retrieves disconnect information
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
XTI Library (\*Llibxti.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <xti.h>\*O
.sp 4p
    \*Lint t_rcvdis(\*O
    \*Lint \*Vfd\*L,\*O
    \*Lstruct t_discon *\*Vdiscon\*L) ;\*O
.sE
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
The
\*Lt_rcvdis\*O(\|)
function can be called in the following
transport provider states: T_DATAXFER, T_OUTCON, T_OUTREL, T_INREL,
and T_INCON (when the number of outstanding connections is greater
than 0 (zero)). The following table summarizes the relevance of input
and output parameters before and after
\*Lt_rcvdis\*O(\|)
is called:
.sp
.TS
center, tab(@);
lb  lb lb
l  c  c.
Parameter@Before Call@After Call
_
\*Vfd\*O@y@n
\*Vdiscon\*O->\*Ludata.maxlen\*O@y@n
\*Vdiscon\*O->\*Ludata.len\*O@n@y
\*Vdiscon\*O->\*Ludata.buf\*O@y@(o)
\*Vdiscon\*O->\*Lreason@\*On@y
\*Vdiscon\*O->\*Lsequence\*O@n@o
.TE
Notes to Table:
.RS
.nf
.ta 5
y	This is a meaningful parameter.
n	This is not a meaningful parameter.
o	This an optional parameter.
(o)	The content of the object pointed to by \*Vy\*O is optional.
.RE
.fi
.TP
\*Vfd\*O
Specifies a file descriptor returned by the
\*Lt_open\*O(\|)
function
that identifies the transport endpoint where a disconnect occurred.
.sp
.ne 3i
.TP
\*Vdiscon\*O
Points to a type
\*Lt_discon\*O
structure used to
specify user-data parameters that can be returned by the transport
user. The
\*Lt_discon\*O
structure has the following members:
.RS
.TP 0.5i
\*Lstruct netbuf   udata\*O
Specifies a buffer for transport
user data sent to the caller with the disconnect when the
\*Lt_rcvdis\*O(\|)
function is
processed. The type
\*Lnetbuf\*O
structure referenced by
this member is defined in the
\*Lxti.h\*O
include file and has the
following members:
.RS 0.5i
.TP 0.5i
\*Lunsigned int   maxlen\*O
Specifies the maximum byte length of the data buffer.
.TP
\*Lunsigned int   len\*O
Specifies the actual byte length of data written to the buffer.
.TP
\*Lchar   *buf\*O
Points to the buffer location.
.RE
.TP
\*Lint   reason\*O
Specifies the reason the disconnect occurred.
.TP
\*Lint   sequence\*O
Specifies the sequence number identifying an outstanding
connection indication that has been disconnected.
.RE
.TP
\0
On return, the \%\*Vdiscon\*O->\*Ludata\*O
buffer
contains information associated with the disconnect. Before the
\*Lt_rcvdis\*O(\|)
function is called,
\*Ludata.maxlen\*O
must be set
to specify
the maximum byte length of the user-data buffer.
.TP
\0
The \%\*Vdiscon\*O->\*Lreason\*O
parameter specifies the reason for
the disconnect using a protocol-dependent reason code. When protocol
independence is a concern, this information should not be examined.
.TP
\0
When this function is called after issuing one or more
\*Lt_listen()\*O
functions, and there is more than one outstanding
transport endpoint connection
(refer to the
\*Lt_listen\*O(\|)
function), the
\%\*Vdiscon\*O->\*Lsequence\*O
parameter is used to specify the
outstanding connection indication with which the disconnect is associated.
.sp
.ne 3i
.TP
\0
When a transport user is not concerned with incoming remote transport
user data, with a reason for a disconnect, or with the sequence number of
the transport endpoint where the disconnect took place, the
\*Vdiscon\*O
parameter
may be specified as a null pointer. When
\*Vdiscon\*O
is specified as a null pointer, no data is returned to the
caller.
.TP
\0
When a transport user knows there is more than one active
connection indication (refer to the
\*Lt_look\*O(\|)
function), and this
function is called with the
\*Vdiscon\*O
parameter set to the null pointer
value, there is no way to identify the connection where the
disconnect occurred.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "t_rcvdis function"
.iX "XTI" "t_rcvdis"
.iX "networking" "t_rcvdis"
.iX "discon endpoint"
.iX "endpoint" "discon"
.iX "disconnect"
The
\*Lt_rcvdis\*O(\|)
XTI connection-oriented function is used to
identify the cause of
a disconnect at a transport endpoint specified by a file descriptor
returned by the
\*Lt_open\*O(\|)
function, and to retrieve any user data
queued with the disconnect.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned.
Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned and
\*Lt_errno\*O
is set to indicate
the error.
.SH "ERRORS"
.PP
If the
\*Lt_rcvdis\*O(\|)
function fails,
\*Lt_errno\*O
is set to one
of the following values:
.TP 1i
[TBADF]
File descriptor
\*Vfd\*O
does not refer to a valid transport endpoint.
.TP
[TNODIS]
No disconnect indication currently exists on the transport
endpoint specified by the
\*Vfd\*O
parameter.
.TP
[TBUFOVFLW]
The number of bytes allocated for incoming data is not sufficient to
store the data. When
\*Vfd\*O
specifies a passive transport endpoint
(the number of outstanding connection indications is greater than 1),
the transport endpoint remains in state T_INCON; otherwise, the
transport endpoint state becomes T_IDLE.
.sp
.ne 3i
.TP
[TSYSERR]
A system error occurred during execution of this function.
.TP
[TOUTSTATE]
The
\*Lt_rcvdis\*O(\|)
function was issued in the wrong sequence on the
transport endpoint referenced by the
\*Vfd\*O
parameter.
.TP
[TNOTSUPPORT]
This function is not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Functions:
\*Lt_alloc\*O(3),
\*Lt_connect\*O(3),
\*Lt_listen\*O(3),
\*Lt_open\*O(3),
\*Lt_snddis\*O(3)
.iX "t_rcvdis function"
.\" End Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.EQ
delim off
.EN
