.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: t_rcvrel.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/27 17:29:00 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH t_rcvrel 3
.SH NAME
.PP
t_rcvrel \- Acknowledges receipt of an orderly release indication
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
XTI Library (\*Llibxti.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\f3#include <xti.h>\fP
.PP
\f3int t_rcvrel(
.ti +0.2i
\f3int \f2fd\fP) ;
.fi
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
The \f3t_rcvrel\f1(\|) function can be called in the T_DATAXFER
and T_OUTREL transport provider states only. The following table
summarizes the relevance of input parameter data before and after
\f3t_rcvrel\f1(\|) is called:
.sp
.TS
center, tab (@);
lb  lb lb
c  c  c.
\f3Parameter@\f3Before Call@\f3After Call\f1
_
.sp 0.3v
\f2fd\fP@y@n
.sp 0.3v
.TE
\f3Notes to Table:\f1
.RS
.nf
.ta 5
y	This is a meaningful parameter.
n	This is not a meaningful parameter.
.RE
.fi
.TP
.I fd
Specifies a file descriptor returned by the \f3t_open\f1(\|) function that
identifies a local transport endpoint that has been released.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "t_rcvrel function"
.iX "XTI" "t_rcvrel
.iX "networking" "rcvrel"
.iX "rcvrel"
The \f3t_rcvrel(\|)\f1 XTI function is used in connection-oriented
mode to acknowledge
receipt of an orderly release indication at a transport endpoint. The
released endpoint is specified by a file descriptor previously
returned by the \f3t_open\f1(\|) function.
.PP
After receipt of this orderly release indication, at the transport
endpoint specified by the file descriptor, a transport user should not
try to receive additional data from that transport endpoint. Any attempt to
receive more data from a released transport endpoint blocks continuously.
However, a transport user may continue to send data across the
connection until a release is sent by a transport user who invokes a
\f3t_sndrel\f1(\|) function call.
.PP
.ne 3i
The \f3t_rcvrel\f1(\|) function should not be used unless the
\f3servtype\f1 type-of-service returned by the \f3t_open\f1(\|) or
\f3t_getinfo\f1(\|) functions is T_COTS_ORD (supports connection-mode
service with the optional orderly release facility).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. Otherwise, a
value of -1 is returned and \f3t_errno\fP is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \f3t_rcvrel(\|)\f1 function fails, \f3t_errno\fP may be set to one
of the following values:
.TP 1i
[TBADF]
File descriptor \f2fd\f1 does not refer to a valid transport endpoint.
.TP
[TNOREL]
No orderly release indication currently exists at the transport endpoint
specified by the \f2fd\f1 parameter.
.TP
[TLOOK]
An asynchronous event has occurred on the transport endpoint specified by
the \f2fd\f1 parameter and requires immediate attention.
.TP
[TSYSERR]
A system error occurred during execution of this function.
.TP
[TOUTSTATE]
The \f3t_rcvrel\f1(\|) function was issued in the wrong sequence at the
transport endpoint referenced by the \f2fd\fP parameter.
.TP
[TNOTSUPPORT]
This function is not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Functions:
.BR t_getinfo (3),
.BR t_open (3),
.BR t_sndrel (3)
.iX "t_rcvrel function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
