.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: t_rcvconnect.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/27 13:28:41 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH t_rcvconnect 3
.SH NAME
.PP
t_rcvconnect \- Receives the confirmation from a connect request
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
XTI Library (\f3libxti.a\f1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\f3#include <xti.h>\fP
.PP
\f3int t_rcvconnect(
.ti +0.2i
\f3int \f2fd\fP,
.ti +0.2i
\f3struct t_call *\f2call\fP) ;
.fi
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
The \f3t_rcvconnect\f1(\|) function can only be called in the
T_OUTCON transport provider state. The following table
summarizes the relevance of input and output parameters before and
after \f3t_rcvconnect\f1(\|) is called:
.sp
.TS
center,tab (@);
lb  lb lb 
l  c  c.
\f3Parameter@\f3Before Call@\f3After Call\fP
_
\f2fd\fP@y@n
\f2call\fP->\f3addr.maxlen\fP@y@n
\f2call\fP->\f3addr.len\fP@n@y
\f2call\fP->\f3addr.buf\fP@y@(y)
\f2call\fP->\f3opt.maxlen\fP@y@n
\f2call\fP->\f3opt.len\fP@n@y
\f2call\fP->\f3opt.buf\fP@y@(y)
\f2call\fP->\f3udata.maxlen\fP@y@n
\f2call\fP->\f3udata.len\fP@n@y
\f2call\fP->\f3udata.buf\fP@y@(o)
\f2call\fP->\f3sequence\fP@n@n
.TE
\f3Notes to Table\f1
.RS
.nf
.ta 5
y	This is a meaningful parameter.
n	This is not a meaningful parameter.
(o)	The content of the object pointed to by \f2o\f1 is optional.
(y)	The content of the object pointed to by \f2y\f1 is meaningful.
.fi
.RE
.TP
.I fd
Specifies a file descriptor returned by the \f3t_open\f1(\|) function that
identifies the local transport endpoint where the connection is
to be established.
.sp
.ne 3i
.TP
.I call
Points to a type \f3t_call\f1 structure, used to reserve
space for a buffer that stores information associated with the
connection at the transport endpoint referenced by the
\f2fd\f1 parameter. When the \f2call\f1 parameter is set to the null
pointer value, no
data is returned to the caller. The \f3t_call\f1 structure has the
following members:
.RS
.TP .5i
\f3struct netbuf\ \ \ addr\f1
References a buffer for protocol address information
returned from the transport endpoint specified by the \f2fd\f1
parameter. The type
\f3netbuf\f1 structure referenced by this member is defined in the
\f3xti.h\f1 include file and has the following members:
.RS .5i
.TP .5i
\f3unsigned int\ \ \ maxlen\f1
Specifies the maximum byte length of the data buffer.
.TP
\f3unsigned int\ \ \ len\f1
Specifies the actual byte length of data written to the buffer.
.TP
\f3char\ \ \ *buf
Points to the buffer location.
.RE
.TP
\f3struct netbuf\ \ \ opt\f1
Specifies a buffer for protocol-specific
parameters associated with the connection.
.TP
\f3struct netbuf\ \ \ udata\f1
Specifies a buffer for transport
user data sent from the destination transport user.
.TP
\f3int\ \ \ sequence\f1
This parameter is not meaningful for the \f3t_rcvconnect\f1(\|) function.
.RE
.TP
\0
The \f3addr\f1 parameters pointed to by the \f2call\f1 parameter
specify protocol
address information associated with the responding transport endpoint.
Before this function is called, the \f3addr.maxlen\fP parameter must be
set to specify the maximum byte length of the protocol-address buffer
pointed to by the \f3addr.buf\f1 parameter, which is used to hold the
protocol address of the responding transport endpoint.
.TP
\0
On return, the \f3addr.len\f1 parameter specifies the actual transport
endpoint protocol-address byte length and the buffer pointed to by
\f3addr.buf\f1 contains the transport endpoint protocol address.
.sp
.ne 3i
.TP
\0
The \f3opt\f1 parameters pointed to by the \f2call\f1 parameter
specify optional
information associated with the responding transport endpoint.
Before this function is called, the \f3opt.maxlen\fP parameter must be
set to specify the maximum byte length of the options-data buffer
pointed to by the \f3opt.buf\f1 parameter, which is used to hold 
optional information from the responding transport endpoint when it
is provided.
.TP
\0
On return, the \f3opt.len\f1 parameter specifies the actual transport
endpoint optional-data byte length and the data buffer pointed 
to by \f3opt.buf\f1 contains transport endpoint optional data.
.TP
\0
The \f3udata\f1 parameters pointed to by the \f2call\f1 parameter specify user 
information associated with the responding transport endpoint.
Before this function is called, the \f3udata.maxlen\fP parameter must be
set to specify the maximum byte length of the user-data buffer
pointed to by the \f3udata.buf\f1 parameter, which is used to hold 
remote transport user information from the responding transport 
endpoint when it is provided.
.TP
\0
On return, the \f3udata.len\f1 parameter specifies the actual transport
endpoint user-data byte length and the data buffer pointed 
to by \f3udata.buf\f1 contains transport endpoint user data.
.\".++
.\".SH "EXAMPLES"
.\".P
.\".SH "NOTES"
.\".P
.\".sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "t_rcvconnect function"
.iX "XTI" "t_rcvconnect function"
The \f3t_rcvconnect(\|)\f1 XTI function enables a calling transport
user to determine the
status of a previously sent connect request at a transport endpoint
specified by a file descriptor returned by the \f3t_open\f1(\|) function.
The \f3t_rcvconnect\f1(\|) function is used in conjunction with the
\f3t_connect\f1(\|) function to establish a connection in asynchronous mode.
By default, this function executes in synchronous mode, waiting for
the connection to be established before returning control to the caller.
.PP
However, when the transport endpoint specified by the \f2fd\f1 file descriptor
has been opened with the O_NONBLOCK flag set in the
\f3t_open\f1(\|) or \f3t_fcntl\f1(\|) functions, the \f3t_connect\f1(\|)
function executes in asynchronous mode. In asynchronous mode, when no
connection confirmation is available, control is immediately returned
to the caller.
.PP
The \f3t_rcvconnect\f1(\|) function uses type
\f3t_call\f1 and \f3netbuf\f1 structures, which are defined in the \f3xti.h\f1
include file.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned.  Otherwise, a
value of -1 is returned and \f3t_errno\fP is set to indicate the error.
.sp
.ne 3i
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \f3t_rcvconnect(\|)\f1 function fails, \f3t_errno\fP 
may be set to one of the following values:
.TP 1i
[TBADF]
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP
[TBUFOVFLW]
The number of bytes allocated for incoming data is not sufficient for
storage of that data. The connect information normally returned to the
\f2call\f1 parameter is discarded.  The transport provider state is
changed to T_DATAXFER.
.TP
[TNODATA]
Asynchronous mode is indicated because O_NONBLOCK was set, but no 
connect confirmation is currently available from the transport provider.
.TP
[TLOOK]
An asynchronous event has occurred on this transport connection and
requires immediate attention (refer to the \f3t_look\f1(\|) function).
.TP
[TOUTSTATE]
The function was issued in the wrong sequence on the transport
endpoint referenced by the  \f2fd\f1 parameter.
.TP
[TSYSERR]
A system error occurred during execution of this function.
.TP
[TNOTSUPPORT]
This function is not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Functions:
.BR t_accept (3),
.BR t_alloc (3),
.BR t_bind (3),
.BR t_connect (3),
.BR t_listen (3),
.BR t_open (3),
.BR t_optmgmt (3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
