.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: t_rcvuderr.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/27 13:32:21 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH t_rcvuderr 3
.SH NAME
t_rcvuderr \- Receives a unit data error indication
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.iX "t_rcvuderr function"
.iX "XTI" "t_rcvuderr function"
XTI Library (\*Llibxti.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <xti.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint t_rcvuderruderr(
.ti +0.2i
\*Lint \*Vfd\,
.ti +0.2i
\*Lstruct t_uderr *\*Vuderr\) ;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The \*Lt_sndudata\*O(\|) function can only be called in the
T_IDLE transport provider state. The following table summarizes
the relevance of input and output parameters before and after
\*Lt_rcvuderr\*O(\|) is called:
.sp
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB
l  l  l.
Parameters@Before Call@After Call
_
.sp
\*Vfd\*O@y@n
\*Vuderr\*O->\*Laddr.maxlen\*O@y@n
\*Vuderr\*O->\*Laddr.len\*O@n@y
\*Vuderr\*O->\*Laddr.buf\*O@y@(y)
\*Vuderr\*O->\*Lopt.maxlen\*O@y@n
\*Vuderr\*O->\*Lopt.len\*O@n@y
\*Vuderr\*O->\*Lopt.buf\*O@y@(y)
\*Vuderr\*O->\*Lerror\*O@n@y
.TE
.PP
\*LNotes to Table:\*O
.VL 4m
.LI "y"
This is a meaningful parameter.
.LI "n"
This is not a meaningful parameter.
.LI "(y)"
The content of the object pointed to by \*Vy\*O is meaningful.
.LI "\*Vfd\*O"
Specifies a file descriptor returned by the \*Lt_open\*O(\|) function that
identifies the local transport endpoint on which the error occurred.
.LI "\*Vuderr\*O"
Points to a type \*Lt_uderr\*O structure used to specify the protocol
address, protocol options, and the nature of the error associated with
the data unit sent through the transport endpoint specified by
the \*Vfd\*O parameter. The \*Lt_uderr\*O structure has the following members:
.LI "\*Lstruct netbuf addr\*O"
References a buffer for protocol address information
associated with the erroneous data unit sent from the transport
endpoint specified by the \*Vfd\*O parameter. The type \*Lnetbuf\*O structure
referenced by this member is defined in the \*Lxti.h\*O include file
and has the following members:
.LI "\*Lunsigned int maxlen\*O"
Specifies the maximum byte length of the data buffer.
.LI "\*Lunsigned int len\*O"
Specifies the actual byte length of data written to the buffer.
.LI "\*Lchar *buf\*O"
Points to the buffer location.
.LI "\*Lstruct netbuf opt\*O"
Specifies a buffer for protocol-specific
parameters associated with the previously sent erroneous data unit.
.LI "\*Llong error\*O"
Specifies a protocol-specific error code associated with
the previously sent erroneous data unit.
.IP
Before the \*Lt_rcvuderr\*O(\|) function is called the
\%\*Vuderr\*O->\*Laddr.maxlen\*O and \%\*Vuderr\*O->\*Lopt.maxlen\*O parameters
must be set to specify the maximum byte length of the protocol
address buffer and the protocol options buffer, respectively, of the
calling transport user.
.\" The original coding indicated to ignore the following paragraphs.
.\" .IP
.\" The \*Laddr\*O parameters pointed to by \*Vuderr\*O specify protocol
.\" address information associated with the destination of the previously
.\" sent data unit. Before this function is called, parameter
.\" \*Laddr.maxlen\*L must be set to specify the maximum byte length of
.\" the protocol-address buffer pointed to by parameter \*Laddr.buf\*O,
.\" which is used to hold the destination protocol address of the previously 
.\" sent data unit on return of this function.
.\" .IP
.\" On return, parameter \*Laddr.len\*O specifies the actual destination
.\" protocol-address byte length and the buffer pointed to by
.\" \*Laddr.buf\*O contains the previously sent data unit destination
.\" protocol address.
.\" .IP
.\" The \*Lopt\*O parameters pointed to by \*Vuderr\*O specify optional
.\" protocol information associated with the sent data unit. Before this
.\" function is called, parameter \*Lopt.maxlen\*O must be set to specify
.\" the maximum byte length of the protocol options-data buffer pointed to
.\" by parameter \*Lopt.buf\*O, which is used to hold any optional
.\" protocol information associated with the sent data unit when it is
.\" provided.
.\" .IP
.\" On return, parameter \*Lopt.len\*O specifies the actual sent data unit
.\" protocol optional-data byte length and the data buffer pointed 
.\" to by \*Lopt.buf\*O contains sent data unit optional protocol data when 
.\" it is provided.
.\" .IP
.\" The \*Lerror\*O parameter specifies protocol-dependent error code
.\" associated with
.\" the reason for the error. 
.IP
When a transport user does not wish to identify the source of the
previously sent data unit error, the \*Vuderr\*O parameter may be
specified as a
null pointer. When this parameter is expressed as a null
pointer, the data unit error indication is cleared, but no information is
returned to buffers pointed to by this parameter.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lt_rcvuderr(\|)\*O function is an XTI connectionless service
function that is used to
retrieve information about an error indication returned when a data
unit was previously sent with a \*Lt_sndudata\*O(\|) call.
.PP
The \*Lt_rcvuderr\*O(\|) function should be called only after a
[T_LOOK] error is returned in response to a \*Lt_sndudata\*O(\|)
call. When \*Lt_rcvuderr\*O(\|) successfully executes, the error will be
cleared. The \*Lt_rcvuderr\*O(\|) function uses type
\*Lt_uderr\*O and \*Lnetbuf\*O structures, which are defined in the
\*Lxti.h\*O
include file.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. Otherwise, a
value of -1 is returned and \*Lt_errno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lt_rcvuderr(\|)\*O function fails,
\*Lt_errno\*O may be set to one of the following values:
.VL
.LI "[TBADF]"
File descriptor \*Vfd\*O does not refer to a valid transport endpoint.
.LI "[TNOUDERR]"
No unit data error indication currently exists at the transport endpoint
specified by the \*Vfd\*O parameter.
.LI "[TBUFOVFLW]"
The number of bytes allocated for the incoming protocol address or
options information is not sufficient to store that information. Unit data
error information was not returned to buffers pointed to by the
\*Vuderr\*O parameter.
.LI "[TSYSERR]"
A system error occurred during execution of this function.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lt_look\*O(3),
\*Lt_rcvudata\*O(3),
\*Lt_sndudata\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
