.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: t_rcv.3,v $ $Revision: 3.3.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/27 13:27:47 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.\" Recoded entire manpage to fix multitute of font errors.
.TH t_rcv 3
.SH NAME
.PP
t_rcv \- Receives normal data or expedited data on a connection
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
XTI Library (\*Llibxti.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <xti.h>\*O
.sp 4p
\*Lint t_rcv(\*O
    \*Lint \*Vfd\*L,\*O
    \*Lchar *\*Vbuf\*L,\*O
    \*Lunsigned \*Vnbytes\*L,\*O
    \*Lint *\*Vflags\*L) ;\*O
.sE
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
The
\*Lt_rcv\*O(\|)
function can only be called in the T_DATAXFER and
T_OUTREL transport provider states. The following table
summarizes the relevance of input and output parameters before and
after
\*Lt_rcv\*O(\|)
is called:
.sp
.TS
center, tab(@);
lb  lb lb
l  c  c.
Parameters@Before Call@After Call
_
\*Vfd\*O@y@n
\*Vbuf\*O@y@(y)
\*Vnbytes\*O@y@n
\*Vflags\*O@n@y
.TE
Notes to Table:
.RS
.nf
.ta 5
y	This is a meaningful parameter.
n	This is not a meaningful parameter.
(y)	The content of the object pointed to by \*Vy\*O is meaningful.
.fi
.RE
.TP
.I fd
Specifies a file descriptor returned by the
\*Lt_open\*O(\|)
function that
identifies the local transport endpoint where an active connection exists.
.TP
\*Vbuf\*O
Points to the receive data buffer where returned data is to be written.
.TP
\*Vnbytes\*O
Specifies the length in bytes of the received-data buffer pointed to
by the
\*Vbuf\*O
parameter.
.sp
.ne 3i
.TP
\*Vflags\*O
Points to an unsigned integer (least significant bit rightmost) whose
bits are flags
that specify the action that must be taken by the responding transport
user when the
\*Lt_rcv\*O(\|)
function is processed. Corresponding values and
symbolic names for the following flag bits are defined in the
\*Lxti.h\*O
include file:
.sp 3p
.in -1i
.TS
center, tab(@) ;
lb  lb  lb
cw(0.5i)  lw(1.0i)  lw(3.0i).
Bit@Symbolic Name@Meaning
_
.sp 3p
0@T_MORE@T{
When set, this bit notifies the transport user that received data is a
fragment of a Transport Service Data Unit (TSDU) or Expedited
Transport Service Data Unit (ETSDU), and that more data is available.
The rest of the TSDU or
ETSDU can be received
through further
\*Lt_rcv\*O(\|)
function calls. Each time this flag is
set on return, another
\*Lt_rcv\*O(\|)
call can
receive additional pieces of the TSDU or ETSDU. When the final TSDU or
ETSDU is received,
this flag bit has a value of 0 (zero) on return. When the transport
provider does not support TSDU or ETSDU data exchanges (refer to the
\*Lt_open\*O(\|)
and
\*Lt_getinfo\*O(\|)
functions), the state of this flag bit should
be ignored.
T}
.sp 3p
1@T_EXPEDITED@T{
When set, this bit notifies the transport user that received data is
an ETSDU. When the number of ETSDU data bytes exceeds the value
specified by the
\*Vnbytes\*O
 parameter, this flag bit and the T_MORE flag bit
is set on return of the initial
\*Lt_rcv\*O(\|)
call. Subsequent
\*Lt_rcv\*O(\|)
calls issued to retrieve the rest of the ETSDU have both these
flag bits set on return. When the final piece of the ETSDU is received, the
T_MORE flag bit has a value of 0 (zero) on return.
T}
@@T{
When an ETSDU is received during reception of a TSDU, no remaining
pieces of the
TSDU may be received until the current ETSDU has been completely received.
T}
.TE
.\"Additionally, the process can arrange to be notified via the EM 
.\"interface.
.sp
.ne 3i
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "t_rcv function"
.iX "XTI" "t_rcv function"
The
\*Lt_rcv\*O(\|)
function is an XTI connection-oriented service
function that is used to
receive normal or expedited data. The transport endpoint through
which data arrives is specified by a file descriptor previously
returned by the
\*Lt_open\*O(\|)
function. By default,
\*Lt_rcv\*O(\|)
executes in the synchronous operating mode. In synchronous mode
\*Lt_rcv\*O(\|)
waits for data to arrive even when none is currently
available before returning control to the calling transport user.
.PP
When the transport endpoint, specified by the
\*Vfd\*O
parameter, has
been opened with
the O_NONBLOCK flag set in the
\*Lt_open\*O(\|)
or
\*Lfcntl\*O(\|)
functions, the
\*Lt_rcv\*O(\|)
function executes
in asynchronous mode. In
asynchronous mode, when no data is available,
this function fails.
.SH "NOTES"
.PP
In synchronous mode, the only way for a transport user to be notified of
the arrival of normal or expedited data is to call the
\*Lt_rcv\*O(\|)
function
or to check for states T_DATA or T_EXDATA using the
\*Lt_look\*O(\|)
function.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.PP
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lt_rcv\*O(\|)
function returns the
number of bytes
of data received. Otherwise, the value -1 is returned and
\*Lt_errno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the
\*Lt_rcv\*O(\|)
function fails,
\*Lt_errno\*O
is set to one of
the following values:
.TP 1i
[TBADF]
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a valid transport endpoint.
.TP
[TNODATA]
Asynchronous mode is indicated because O_NONBLOCK was set, but no data
is currently available from the transport provider.
.TP
[TLOOK]
An asynchronous event has occurred on this transport endpoint and
requires immediate attention (refer to
\*Lt_look\*O(\|)
function).
.TP
[TOUTSTATE]
The
\*Lt_look\*O(\|)
function was issued in the wrong sequence on the
transport endpoint referenced by the
\*Vfd\*O
parameter.
.TP
[TSYSERR]
A system error occurred during execution of
\*Lt_look\*O(\|).
.TP
[TNOTSUPPORT]
This function is not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Functions:
\*Lfcntl\*O(2),
\*Lt_getinfo\*O(3),
\*Lt_look\*O(3),
\*Lt_open\*O(3),
\*Lt_snd\*O(3)
.\" End Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.EQ
delim off
.EN
