.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: t_rcvudata.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/27 13:31:26 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH t_rcvudata 3
.SH NAME
.PP
t_rcvudata \- Receives a data unit
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
XTI Library (\*Llibxti.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <xti.h>\*O
.sp 4p
\*Lint t_rcvudata(\*O
    \*Lint \*Vfd\*L,\*O
    \*Lstruct t_unitdata *\*Vunitdata\*L,\*O
    \*Lint *\*Vflags\*L) ;\*O
.sE
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
The
\*Lt_rcvudata\*O(\|)
function can only be called in the
T_IDLE transport provider state. The following table summarizes
the relevance of input and output parameter data before and after
\*Lt_rcvudata\*O(\|)
is called:
.PP
.TS
center, tab(@);
lb  lb lb
l  c  c.
Parameters@Before Call@After Call
_
\*Vfd\*O@y@n
\*Vunitdata\*O->\*Laddr.maxlen\*O@y@n
\*Vunitdata\*O->\*Laddr.len\*O@n@y
\*Vunitdata\*O->\*Laddr.buf\*O@y@(y)
\*Vunitdata\*O->\*Lopt.maxlen\*O@y@n
\*Vunitdata\*O->\*Lopt.len\*O@n@y
\*Vunitdata\*O->\*Lopt.buf\*O@y@(y)
\*Vunitdata\*O->\*Ludata.maxlen\*O@y@n
\*Vunitdata\*O->\*Ludata.len\*O@n@y
\*Vunitdata\*O->\*Ludata.buf\*O@y@(y)
\*Vflags\*O@n@y\*O
.TE
\*LNotes to Table:\*O
.RS
.nf
.ta 5
y	This is a meaningful parameter.
n	This is not a meaningful parameter.
(y)	The content of the object pointed to by \*Vy\*O is meaningful.
.RE
.fi
.TP
\*Vfd\*O
Specifies a file descriptor returned by the
\*Lt_open\*O(\|)
function that
identifies the transport endpoint.
.sp
.ne 3i
.TP
\*Vunitdata\*O
Points to a type
\*Lt_unitdata\*O
structure used to specify
information required by the transport provider user to receive a data
unit through the transport endpoint specified by the
\*Vfd\*O
parameter.
The
\*Lt_unitdata\*O
structure has the following members:
.RS
.TP 0.5i
\*Lstruct netbuf   addr\*O
References a buffer for protocol address information
required from the transport endpoint specified by the
\*Vfd\*O
parameter. The type
\*Lnetbuf\*O
structure referenced by this member is defined in the
\*Lxti.h\*O
include file and has the following members:
.RS 0.5i
.TP 0.5i
\*Lunsigned int   maxlen\*O
Specifies the maximum byte length of the data buffer.
.TP
\*Lunsigned int   len\*O
Specifies the actual byte length of the data written to the buffer.
.TP
\*Lchar   *buf
Points to the buffer location.
.RE
.TP 0.5i
\*Lstruct netbuf   opt\*O
Specifies a buffer for protocol-specific
parameters associated with the data unit.
.TP
\*Lstruct netbuf   udata\*O
Specifies parameters for any user data unit that may be
returned to the caller.
.RE
.TP
\0
Before the
\*Lt_rcvudata\*O(\|)
function is called the
\%\*Vunitdata\*O->\*Laddr.maxlen\*O,
\%\*Vunitdata\*O->\*Lopt.maxlen\*O,
and
\%\*Vunitdata\*O->\*Ludata.maxlen\*O
parameters must be set to specify
the maximum
byte length of of the protocol address buffer, the protocol options buffer,
and the user data buffer, respectively.
.TP
\*Vflags\*O
Points to a flag integer that indicates that the complete data unit
was not received. Corresponding values and symbolic
names for flags are defined in the
\*Lxti.h\*O
include
file (see the
\*Lt_optmgmt\*O(\|)
and
\*Lt_rcv\*O(\|)
functions). The flag
specified by this function is:
.RS
.TP 0.5i
T_MORE.
When the data buffer specified by the
\%\*Vunitdata\*O->\*Ludata.buf\*O
parameter is not large enough to
hold the current
user data unit, the buffer is filled and this bit is set to indicate that
another
\*Lt_rcvudata\*O(\|)
function should be called to retrieve the rest of
the data unit.
.sp .4v
.ne 3i
The set state of this bit notifies the local transport user that the
received data unit is a fragment and that another data unit is
available. When this bit is set on return of this function, another
data unit must also be fetched with another
\*Lt_rcvudata\*O(\|)
call.
Each time this flag is set on return, another
\*Lt_rcvudata\*O(\|)
call must immediately be made to receive
additional current data units.  When the final data unit is received,
this flag bit has a value of 0 (zero) on return.
.sp .4v
Subsequent calls to the
\*Lt_rcvudata\*O(\|)
function return 0 (zero)
as the length
of the address specified by the \%\*Vunitdata\*O->\*Laddr.len\*O
and
\%\*Vunitdata\*O->\*Lopt.len\*O
parameters until the full data unit
has been received.
.RE
.\".SH "EXAMPLES"
.\".P
.\".SH "NOTES"
.\".P
.\".sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "t_rcvudata function"
.iX "XTI" "t_rcvudata function"
The
\*Lt_rcvudata\*O(|) function is an XTI connectionless service
function that is used to receive
a data unit from a remote transport provider user. By default,
\*Lt_rcvudata\*O(\|)
executes in the synchronous operating mode. The
\*Lt_rcvudata\*O(\|)
function waits for data to arrive at the
transport endpoint specified by
\*Vfd\*O
before returning
control to the transport user who called this function.
.PP
However, when the transport endpoint, specified by the
\*Vfd\*O
parameter, has been previously opened with the O_NONBLOCK
flag set in the
\*Lt_open\*O(\|)
or
\*Lfcntl\*O(\|)
function, the
\*Lt_rcvudata\*O(\|)
function executes in asynchronous mode. In asynchronous mode, when a data
unit is unavailable, control is immediately returned to the caller.
S.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. Otherwise, a
value of -1 is returned and
\*Lt_errno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "ERRORS"
.PP
If the
\*Lt_rcvudata\*O(\|)
function fails,
\*Lt_errno\*O
may be set to
one of the following values:
.TP 1i
[TBADF]
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP
[TNODATA]
Asynchronous mode is indicated because O_NONBLOCK was set, but no
data is currently available from the transport provider.
.TP
[TBUFOVFLW]
The number of bytes allocated for the incoming protocol address or
protocol options is not sufficient to store the information.  The unit
data information normally returned to the
\*Vunitdata\*O
parameter
is discarded.
.sp
.ne 3i
.TP
[TLOOK]
An asynchronous event that requires immediate attention has occurred at
the transport endpoint specified by the
\*Vfd\*O
parameter.
.TP
[TOUTSTATE]
The
\*Lt_rcvudata\*O(\|)
function was issued in the wrong sequence at the
transport endpoint referenced by the
\*Vfd\*O
parameter.
.TP
[TSYSERR]
A system error occurred during execution of this function.
.TP
[TNOTSUPPORT]
This function is not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Functions:
\*Lfcntl\*O(2),
\*Lt_alloc\*O(3),
\*Lt_open\*O(3),
\*Lt_optmgmt\*O(3),
\*Lt_rcv\*O(3),
\*Lt_rcvuderr\*O(3),
\*Lt_sndudata\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
