.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: t_sndudata.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/27 13:36:00 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH t_sndudata 3
.SH NAME
.PP
t_sndudata \- Sends a data unit
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
XTI Library (\f3libxti.a\f1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\f3#include <xti.h>\fP
.PP
\f3int t_sndudata\f1(
.ti +0.2i
\f3int \f2fd\f1,
.ti +0.2i
\f3struct t_unitdata *\f2unitdata\fP) ;
.fi
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
The \f3t_sndudata\f1(\|) function can only be called in the T_IDLE
transport provider state. The following table summarizes the relevance
of input and output parameters before and after \f3t_sndudata\f1(\|)
is called:
.PP
.TS
center, tab (@);
lb  lb  lb
l   c   c.
Parameters@Before Call@After Call
_
\f2fd\fP@y@n
\f2unitdata\fP->\f3addr.maxlen\fP@n@n
\f2unitdata\fP->\f3addr.len\fP@y@n
\f2unitdata\fP->\f3addr.buf\fP@y(y)@n
\f2unitdata\fP->\f3opt.maxlen\fP@n@n
\f2unitdata\fP->\f3opt.len\fP@y@n
\f2unitdata\fP->\f3opt.buf\fP@o(o)@n
\f2unitdata\fP->\f3udata.maxlen\fP@n@n
\f2unitdata\fP->\f3udata.len\fP@y@n
\f2unitdata\fP->\f3udata.buf\fP@y(y)@n
.TE
\f3Notes to Table:\f1
.RS
.nf
.ta 5
y	This is a meaningful parameter.
(y)	The content of the object pointed to by \f2y\f1 is meaningful.
o	This is a meaningful but optional parameter.
(o)	The content of the object pointed to by \f2o\f1 is meaningful.
n	This is not a meaningful parameter.
.RE
.fi
.TP 1i
.I fd
Specifies a file descriptor returned by the \f3t_open\f1(\|) function that
identifies the transport endpoint through which data is sent.
.sp
.\".ne 3i
.TP 1i
.I unitdata
Points to a type \f3t_unitdata\f1 structure used
to specify a data unit being sent through the transport endpoint
specified by the \f2fd\f1 parameter.
The \f3t_unitdata\f1 structure has the following members:
.RS
.TP .5i
\f3struct netbuf\ \ \ addr \f1
References a buffer for protocol address information of
the remote transport user. The type \f3netbuf\f1 structure referenced
by this member is defined in the \f3xti.h\f1 include file and has
the following members:
.RS .5i
.TP .5i
\f3unsigned int\ \ \ maxlen\f1
Specifies a maximum byte length of the data buffer.
.TP .5i
\f3unsigned int\ \ \ len\f1
Specifies the actual byte length of the data written to the buffer.
.TP .5i
\f3char\ \ \ *buf
Points to the buffer location.
.RE
.TP .5i
\f3struct netbuf\ \ \ opt\f1
Specifies protocol-specific optional 
parameters.
.TP .5i
\f3struct netbuf\ \ \ udata\f1
Specifies the user data unit that is being 
sent to the remote transport user.
.RE
.TP 1i
\0
The \%\f2unitdata\f1->\f3addr.maxlen\f1,
\%\f2unitdata\f1->\f3opt.maxlen\f1, and
\%\f2unitdata\f1->\f3udata.maxlen\f1 parameters are not meaningful
with the
\f3t_sndudata\f1(\|) function.
.TP
\0
When optional data is not provided, the
\f3opt.len\f1 parameter should be set to the null value.
.TP
\0
If the \f3udata.len\f1 parameter is specified as
0 (zero), and the underlying transport service does not support the
sending of 0 (zero) octets, \f3t_errno\f1 is set to [TBADDATA] and -1
is returned.
.\".SH "EXAMPLES"
.\".P
.\".SH "NOTES"
.\".P
.\".sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "t_sndudata function"
.iX "XTI" "t_sndudata function"
The \f3t_sndudata(\|)\f1 function is an XTI connectionless service
function that is used to send a
data unit to a remote transport user. By default,
\f3t_sndudata\f1(\|) executes in the synchronous operating mode. The
\f3t_sndudata\f1(\|) function waits for the transport provider
to accept the data before
returning control to the calling transport user.
.PP
.\".ne 3i
When the transport endpoint specified by the \f2fd\f1 parameter
has been previously opened with the O_NONBLOCK flag set in the
\f3t_open\f1(\|) or \f3fcntl\f1(\|) functions, the
\f3t_sndudata\f1(\|) function
executes in asynchronous mode. In asynchronous mode, when a data unit is 
not accepted control is immediately returned to the caller.
The \f3t_look()\f1 function can be used to determine when flow control
restrictions
have been lifted.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. Otherwise, a
value of -1 is returned and \f3t_errno\fP is set to indicate the error.
.SH "ERRORS"
.PP
If the \f3t_sndudata(\|)\f1 function fails, \f3t_errno\fP may be set to
one of the following values:
.TP 1i
[TBADDATA]
Illegal amount of data. Zero octets is not supported.
.TP
[TBADF]
File descriptor \f2fd\f1 is not a valid transport endpoint.
.TP
[TFLOW]
Asynchronous mode is indicated because 
O_NONBLOCK was set, but the transport provider cannot accept the 
data because of \%flow-control restrictions.
.TP
[TLOOK]
An asynchronous event has occurred on this transport endpoint and 
requires immediate attention.
.TP
[TNOTSUPPORT]
This function is not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.TP
[TOUTSTATE]
The \f3t_sendudata\f1(\|) function  was issued in the wrong sequence on 
the transport endpoint referenced by the \f2fd\f1 parameter.
.TP
[TSYSERR]
A system error occurred during execution of this function. A
protocol error may not cause the \f3t_sndudata(\|)\fP function to fail until a 
subsequent call is made to access the transport endpoint specified by 
the \f2fd\f1 parameter.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Functions:
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR t_alloc (3),
.BR t_open (3),
.BR t_rcvuderr (3),
.BR t_sndudata (3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
