.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: t_snd.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.8.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/15 00:05:00 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.\" Recoded entire page to fix a multitude of font problems
.TH t_snd 3
.SH NAME
.PP
t_snd \- Sends normal data or expedited data over a connection
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
XTI Library (\*Llibxti.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <xti.h>\*O
.sp 4p
\*Lint t_snd(\*O
    \*Lint \*Vfd\*L,\*O
    \*Lchar *\*Vbuf\*L,\*O
    \*Lunsigned \*Vnbytes\*L,\*O
    \*Lint \*Vflags\*L) ;\*O
.sE
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
The
\*Lt_snd\*O(\|)
function can only be called in the T_DATAXFER and
T_INREL transport provider states. The following table
summarizes the relevance of input and output parameters before and
after
\*Lt_snd\*O(\|)
is called:
.sp
.TS
center, tab(@);
lb  lb  lb
l   c   c.
Parameters@Before Call@After Call
_
\*Vfd\*O@y@n
\*Vbuf\*O@y(y)@n
\*Vnbytes\*O@y@n
\*Vflags\*O@y@n
.TE
Notes to Table:
.RS
.nf
.ta 5
y	This is a meaningful parameter.
n	This is not a meaningful parameter.
(y)	The content of the object pointed to by \*Vy\*O is meaningful.
.RE
.fi
.TP
\*Vfd\*O
Specifies
a file descriptor returned by the
\*Lt_open\*O(\|)
function that
identifies the local transport endpoint where an active connection exists.
.TP
\*Vbuf\*O
Points to the data buffer from which data is to be sent.
.TP
\*Vnbytes\*O
Specifies the length in bytes of the send data buffer
contents pointed to by the
\*Vbuf\*O
parameter.
.sp
.ne 3i
.TP
\*Vflags\*O
Points to an integer whose bits specify certain optional information.
Corresponding values and symbolic names for these flag bits are
defined in the
\*Lxti.h\*O
include file. Flags specified by this
function are:
.RS
.TP 1.5i
\*LSymbolic Name\*O
\*LMeaning\*O
.sp 0.5v
.TP 1.5i
T_MORE
When set, this bit notifies the transport provider that sent data is a
fragment of a Transport Service Data Unit (TSDU) or Expedited Transport Service
Data Unit (ETSDU), and that more data will be sent on the same TSDU or
ETSDU via the
\*Lt_snd\*O(|) function.
The rest of the TSDU or
ETSDU can be sent
through
further
\*Lt_snd\*O(\|)
function calls.
.TP 1.5i
\0
Each
time the T_MORE flag is set, another
\*Lt_snd\*O(\|)
call follows so
that additional parts of the TSDUs or ETSDUs can be sent. When the
final piece is
sent, this flag bit is set to a value of 0 (zero). When the transport
provider does not support TSDU or ETSDU data exchanges (refer to the
\*Lt_open\*O(\|)
and
\*Lt_getinfo\*O(\|)
functions) the state of this flag bit is meaningless.
.TP 1.5i
T_EXPEDITED
When set, this bit notifies the transport provider that expedited
data is sent. When the value of ETSDU data exceeds the value specified
by
\*Vnbytes\*O
parameter, this flag bit and the T_MORE flag bit should be
set
prior to the initial
\*Lt_snd\*O(\|)
call. Subsequent
\*Lt_snd\*O(\|)
calls used to send pieces of ETSDU must have both these flag bits set.
When the final ETSDU is sent, the T_MORE flag bit is set to a
value of 0 (zero).
.RE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "t_snd"
.iX "XTI" "t_snd function"
The
\*Lt_snd\*O(|) function is an XTI connection-oriented service function
that is used to
send normal or expedited data. The transport endpoint through which
normal Transport Service Data Unit (TSDU) data or special
Expedited TSDU (ETSDU) data is sent is specified by a file
descriptor
previously returned by the
\*Lt_open\*O(\|)
function.
.PP
.ne 3i
The size of each TSDU or ETSDU must not exceed the size limits
specified by \%\*Vinfo\*O->\*Ltsdu\*O
or \%\*Vinfo\*O->\*Letsdu\*O,
respectively,
returned by the
\*Lt_open\*O(\|)
or
\*Lt_getinfo\*O(\|)
functions.
Failure to comply with specified size constraints results in return of
a [TSYSERR] protocol error. By
default,
the
\*Lt_snd\*O(\|)
function executes in the synchronous
operating mode.
In
the synchronous operating mode
\*Lt_snd\*O(\|)
waits for data to be
accepted by the transport provider, before returning control to the
calling transport user.
.PP
When the transport endpoint specified by the file
descriptor has been opened with the O_NONBLOCK flag set in the
\*Lt_open\*O(\|)
or
\*Lfcntl\*O(\|)
function, the
\*Lt_snd\*O(\|)
function executes
in asynchronous mode. When data cannot be immediately
accepted because flow control restrictions apply, control is immediately
returned to the caller.
.PP
When the
\*Lt_snd\*O(\|)
function executes successfully, the number of
bytes accepted
by the transport provider is returned. It is possible that only
part of the data may be accepted by a transport provider. When only
partial data is accepted, the returned value is less than the
number of bytes sent.  If the
\*Vnbytes\*O
parameter is specified as
0 (zero), and the underlying transport service does not support the
sending of 0 octets,
\*Lt_errno\*O
is set to [TBADDATA] and -1
is returned.
.SH NOTES
.PP
In asynchronous mode, when the number of bytes accepted by the
transport provider is less than the number of bytes sent, the
transport provider may be blocked because of flow-control restrictions.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.PP
Upon
successful completion, the
\*Lt_snd\*O(\|)
function returns the
number of bytes
of data accepted by the transport provider. Otherwise,
-1 is returned and
\*Lt_errno\*O
is set to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the
\*Lt_snd\*O(|) function fails,
\*Lt_errno\*O
may be set to one of
the following values:
.TP 1i
[TBADF]
File descriptor
\*Vfd\*O
does not refer to a valid transport endpoint.
.TP
[TBADDATA]
Illegal amount of data.  Zero octets is not supported.
.TP
[TBADFLAG]
An invalid
\*Vflags\*O
value was specified.
.sp
.ne 3i
.TP
[TFLOW]
Asynchronous mode is indicated because O_NONBLOCK was set, but no data
can currently  be accepted by the transport provider because of
flow-control restrictions.
.TP
[TLOOK]
An asynchronous event occurred on this transport endpoint.
.TP
[TOUTSTATE]
The
\*Lt_snd\*O(\|)
function was issued in the wrong sequence on the
transport endpoint referenced by the
\*Vfd\*O
parameter.
.TP
[TSYSERR]
A
system error occurred during execution of the
\*Lt_snd\*O(\|)
function. A
protocol
error may not cause
\*Lt_snd\*O(\|)
to fail until a subsequent
access of the transport endpoint is made.
.TP
[TNOTSUPPORT]
This function is not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Functions:
\*Lfcntl\*O(2),
\*Lt_getinfo\*O(3),
\*Lt_look\*O(3),
\*Lt_open\*O(3),
\*Lt_optmgmt\*O(3),
\*Lt_rcv\*O(3)
.\" End Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.EQ
delim off
.EN
