.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: t_sndrel.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/27 13:34:59 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.\" Recoded to fix a multitude of font problems
.TH t_sndrel 3
.SH NAME
.PP
t_sndrel \- Initiates an endpoint connect orderly release
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
XTI Library (\*Llibxti.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <xti.h>\*O
.sp 4p
\*Lint t_sndrel(\*O
    \*Lint \*Vfd\*L) ;\*O
.sE
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
The
\*Lt_sndrel\*O(\|)
function can be called in the T_DATAXFER
and T_INREL transport provider states only. The following table
summarizes the relevance of input parameter data before and after
\*Lt_sndrel\*O(\|)
is called:
.sp 3p
.TS
center, tab(@);
lb  lb  lb
c   c   c.
Parameter@Before Call@After Call
_
.sp 0.3v
\*Vfd\*O@y@n
.sp 0.3v
.TE
Notes to Table:
.RS
.nf
.ta 5
y	This is a meaningful parameter.
n	This is not a meaningful parameter.
.fi
.RE
.TP
\*Vfd\*O
Specifies
a file descriptor returned by the
\*Lt_open\*O(\|)
function that
identifies a local transport endpoint where an orderly release is
wanted.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "t_sndrel function"
.iX "XTI" "t_sndrel function"
The
\*Lt_sndrel\*O(|)  XTI function is used in connection-oriented
mode to initiate
an orderly release at a transport endpoint specified
by
a file descriptor previously returned by the
\*Lt_open\*O(\|)
function.
.PP
After this orderly release is indicated, the transport user should not
try to send more
data through that transport endpoint; an attempt to send more data to a
released transport endpoint may block continuously. However, a transport user
may continue to receive data over the connection until an orderly
release indication is received.
.PP
.\".ne 3i
The
\*Lt_sndrel\*O(\|)
function should not be used unless the
\*Lservtype\*O
type-of-service
returned by the
\*Lt_open\*O(\|)
or
\*Lt_getinfo\*O(\|)
functions is T_COTS_ORD (supports connection-mode service
with the optional orderly release facility).
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. Otherwise, a
value of -1 is returned and
\*Lt_errno\*O
is set to indicate an error.
.SH "ERRORS"
.PP
If the
\*Lt_sndrel\*O(|) function fails,
\*Lt_errno\*O
may be set to one
of the following values:
.TP 1i
[TBADF]
File descriptor
\*Vfd\*O
does not refer to a valid transport endpoint.
.TP
[TFLOW]
Asynchronous mode is indicated because O_NONBLOCK was set, but
the transport provider cannot accept a release because of \%flow-control
restrictions.
.TP
[TLOOK]
An asynchronous event has occurred on this transport endpoint and
requires immediate attention.
.TP
[TNOTSUPPORT]
This function is not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.TP
[TOUTSTATE]
The
\*Lt_sndrel\*O(\|)
function was issued in the wrong sequence at the
transport endpoint specified by the
\*Vfd\*O
parameter.
.TP
[TSYSERR]
A system error occurred during execution of this function.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Functions:
\*Lt_getinfo\*O(3),
\*Lt_open\*O(3),
\*Lt_rcvrel\*O(3)
.\" End Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.EQ
delim off
.EN
