.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: t_sync.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.8.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/27 13:36:54 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH t_sync 3
.SH NAME
.PP
t_sync \- Synchronizes transport library
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
XTI Library (\*Llibxti.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.br
.sS
\*L#include <xti.h>\*O
.sp 4p
\*Lint t_sync(\*O
    \*Lint \*Vfd\*L) ;\*O
.sE
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
The
\*Lt_sync\*O(\|)
function can be called in any transport provider
state except T_UNINIT. The following table summarizes the relevance of
input
parameter data before and after
\*Lt_sync\*O(\|)
is called:
.sp
.TS
center, tab(@);
lb  lb  lb
c   c   c.
Parameter@Before Call@After Call
_
.sp 0.3v
\*Vfd\*O@y@n
.sp 0.3v
.TE
Notes to Table:
.RS
.nf
.ta 5
y	This is a meaningful parameter.
n	This is not a meaningful parameter.
.RE
.fi
.TP
\*Vfd\*O
Specifies
a file descriptor returned by the
\*Lt_open\*O(\|)
function that
identifies an active, uninitialized local transport endpoint.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "t_sync function"
.iX "XTI" "t_sync function"
The
\*Lt_sync\*O(|) XTI utility service function is used to
synchronize data structures
managed by the transport library with information from the underlying
transport provider.
.PP
The
\*Lt_sync\*O(\|)
function is used to convert an uninitialized file
descriptor,
previously returned by the
\*Lopen\*O(\|)
or
\*Ldup\*O(\|)
functions, or
returned
as the result of
\*Lfork\*O(\|)
or
\*Lexec\*O(\|)
functions,
to an initialized transport endpoint. When the file descriptor
references a valid transport endpoint, necessary library data
structures are allocated and updated.
.PP
.ne 3i
The
\*Lt_sync\*O(\|)
function also permits two cooperating processes
to synchronize their interaction with a transport provider. When a
process
forks, for example, and an
\*Lexec\*O(\|)
function is
issued,
the child (new) process must call the
\*Lt_sync\*O(\|)
function to build a
private library data structure associated with the transport endpoint
referenced by the
\*Vfd\*O
parameter and to synchronize the library
data structure
with relevant transport provider information.
.PP
A transport
provider treats multiple users of a transport endpoint as the same
user. When more than one
process is using the same transport endpoint, each should coordinate its
activities so that operation does not conflict with the transport
provider state at the transport endpoint specified by
\*Vfd\*O.
.PP
The
\*Lt_sync\*O(\|)
function returns the current state of the
transport
provider (refer to the
\*Lt_getstate\*O(\|)
function).
Return of the current state of the transport provider permits the
calling transport user to verify the transport provider state before
issuing the next function call. This coordination is only valid among
cooperating processes; it is possible that a process or an incoming
event can change the transport provider state at the reference
transport
endpoint after
\*Lt_sync\*O(\|)
is called.
.PP
When the transport provider at the transport endpoint referenced by the
\*Vfd\*O
parameter is undergoing a change of state and the
\*Lt_sync\*O(\|)
function
is
called, the
\*Lt_sync\*O(\|)
process fails and returns a
[TSTATECHNG] error.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.PP
Upon successful completion, the state of the transport provider at the
transport endpoint specified by the
\*Vfd\*O
parameter is returned.
Otherwise, a
value of -1 is returned and
\*Lt_errno\*O
is set to indicate the error.
The returned state is one of the following:
.TP 1i
[T_UNBND]
Transport endpoint not bound to an address.
.TP
[T_IDLE]
Transport endpoint is idle.
.TP
[T_OUTCON]
Outgoing connection pending.
.TP
[T_INCON]
Incoming connection pending.
.TP
[T_DATAXFER]
Data transfer.
.TP
[T_OUTREL]
Outgoing orderly release (waiting for an orderly release indication).
.TP
[T_INREL]
Incoming orderly release (waiting for an orderly release request).
.sp
.ne 3i
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the
\*Lt_sync\*O(|) function fails,
\*Lt_errno\*O
may be set to one of
the following values:
.TP
[TBADF]
File descriptor
\*Vfd\*O
is not a valid transport endpoint.
This error may be returned when the
\*Vfd\*O
parameter has been
previously closed or
an erroneous file-descriptor value may have been passed to the call.
.TP
[TSTATECHNG]
The transport endpoint is undergoing a state change.
.TP
[TSYSERR]
A system error occurred during execution of this function.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Functions:
\*Lexec\*O(2),
\*Lfcntl\*O(2),
\*Lfork\*O(2),
\*Lopen\*O(2),
\*Lt_getstate\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
