.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: t_unbind.3,v $ $Revision: 3.3.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/27 13:37:47 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH t_unbind 3
.SH NAME
\*Lt_unbind\*O \- Disables a transport endpoint.
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
XTI Library (\*Llibxti.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "t_unbind function"
.iX "XTI" "t_unbind function"
.sS
\*L#include <xti.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint t_unbind(
.ti +0.2i
\*Lint \*Vfd) ;\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The \*Lt_bind\*O(\|) function can only be called in the T_IDLE
transport provider state. The following table summarizes the relevance
of input parameter data before and after \*Lt_bind\*O(\|) is called:
.sp
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB
l l l.
Parameter@Before Call@After Call
_
.sp
\*Vfd\*O@y@n
.sp
.TE
.PP
\*LNotes to Table:\*O
.VL
.LI "y"
This is a meaningful parameter.
.LI "n"
This is not a meaningful parameter.
.LI "\*Vfd\*O"
Specifies a file descriptor returned by the \*Lt_open\*O(\|) function that
identifies an active, previously bound local transport endpoint.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lt_unbind(\|)\*O XTI service function is used in
connection-oriented and
connectionless modes to disable the transport endpoint, specified by
the file descriptor that was previously bound by a \*Lt_bind\*O(\|)
call. When \*Lt_bind\*O(\|)
completes, no further data destined for this transport endpoint or
events are accepted by the transport provider.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. Otherwise, a
value of -1 is returned and \*Lt_errno\*O is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Lt_unbind(\|)\*O function fails, \*Lt_errno\*O is set to one
of the following values:
.VL
.LI "[TBADF]"
File descriptor \*Vfd\*O is not a valid transport endpoint.
.LI "[TOUTSTATE]"
This function was issued in the wrong sequence.
.LI "[TLOOK]"
An asynchronous event occurred at the transport endpoint specified by the
\*Vfd\*O parameter.
.LI "[TSYSERR]"
A system error occurred during execution of this function.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lt_bind\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
