.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tcflow.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 09:06:47 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH tcflow 3
.SH NAME
tcflow \-  Performs flow control functions
.SH LIBRARY
\f1Standard C Library (\f3libc.a\f1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f3#include <termios.h>
.ft R
.PP
\f3int tcflow(
.br
	int \f2filedes\f3,
.br
	int \f2action \f3);
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\f2filedes
\f1Specifies an open file descriptor.
.TP
\f2action
\f1Specifies one of the following:
.RS
.TP .5i
TCOOFF
Suspend output.
.TP
TCOON
Restart suspended output.
.TP
TCIOFF
Transmit a STOP character, which is intended to 
cause the terminal device to stop transmitting data to the system. 
.TP
TCION
Transmit a START character, which is intended to 
cause the terminal device to start transmitting data to the system. 
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "tcflow function"
.iX "flow control functions"
.iX "control" "flow of"
.PP
The \f3tcflow(\|)\f1 function suspends transmission or reception 
of data on the object referred to by the \f2filedes\f1 parameter, 
depending on the value of the \f2action\f1 parameter. 
.PP
A process group is sent a SIGTTOU signal if 
the
.B tcflow(\|) 
function is called from one of its member processes.
If the calling process is blocking or ignoring SIGTTOU signals, the
process is allowed to perform the operation and no signal is sent.
.sp
.ne 3i
.SH NOTES
.PP
.BR "AES Support Level:"
Full use
.SH RETURN VALUES
.RE
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. Otherwise, 
a value of -1 is returned and \f3errno\f1 is 
set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \f3tcflow(\|)\f1 function fails,
.B errno
may be set to one of the following values:
.TP 1i
[EBADF]
The \f2filedes\f1 parameter does not 
specify a valid file descriptor.
.TP 1i
[EINVAL]
The
.I action
parameter is not a supported value.
.TP 1i
[ENOTTY]
The file associated with the \f2filedes\f1 
parameter is not a terminal. 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: 
.BR tcdrain (3),
.BR tcflush (3),
.BR tcsendbreak (3)
.PP
Files:
.BR termios (4)
.iX "tcflow function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
