.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tcflush.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 09:06:58 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH tcflush 3
.SH NAME
tcflush \-  Flushes nontransmitted output data or nonread input data
.SH LIBRARY
\f1Standard C Library (\f3libc.a\f1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f3#include <termios.h>
.ft R
.PP
\f3int tcflush(
.br
	int \f2filedes\f3,
.br
	int \f2queue_selector \f3);
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\f2filedes
\f1Specifies an open file descriptor associated with a terminal.
.TP
\f2queue_selector
\f1Specifies one of the following:
.RS
.TP .5i
TCIFLUSH
Flush data received but not read.
.TP
TCOFLUSH
Flush data written but not transmitted.
.TP
TCIOFLUSH
Flush both 
data received but not read
and
data written but not transmitted.
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "tcflush function"
.iX "output" "flushing"
.iX "flushing output data"
.iX "input" "flushing"
.iX "flushing input data"
.PP
The \f3tcflush(\|)\f1 function discards any data written to the 
object referred to by the \f2filedes\f1 parameter, or data 
received but not read by the object referred to by \f2filedes\f1, 
depending on the value of the \f2queue_selector\f1 parameter.  
.PP
A process group is sent a SIGTTOU signal if 
the
.B tcflush(\|) 
function is called from one of its member processes.
If the calling process is blocking or ignoring SIGTTOU signals, the
process is allowed to perform the operation and no signal is sent.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.BR "AES Support Level:"
Full use
.sp
.ne 3i
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. Otherwise, 
a value of -1 is returned and \f3errno\f1 is 
set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \f3tcflush(\|)\f1 function fails,
.B errno
may be set to one of the following values:
.TP 1i
[EBADF]
The \f2filedes\f1 parameter does not 
specify a valid file descriptor.
.TP 1i
[EINVAL]
The \f2queue_selector\f1 parameter does not 
specify a proper value.
.TP 1i
[ENOTTY]
The file associated with the \f2filedes\f1 
parameter is not a terminal.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: 
.BR tcdrain (3),
.BR tcflow (3),
.BR tcsendbreak (3)
.PP
Files: 
.BR termios (4)
.iX "tcflush function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
