.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tcgetsid.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 22:42:11 $
.\"
.TH tcgetsid 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ltcgetsid\*O \- Returns the session ID of the terminal
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lpid_t tcgetsid (\*L
.nL
      int \*Vfildes\*O );
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vfildes\*O"
Specifies a terminal.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "tcgetsid routine"
The \*Ltcgetsid\*O routine is a part of the general terminal
interface.  This routine obtains the session ID of the terminal
as specified by the \*Vfildes\*O parameter.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
On success, the \*Vtcgetsid\*O returns the session ID that is
associated with the terminal specified.  If the session ID of
the terminal cannot be obtained, a value of -1 is returned
and \*Lerrno\*O is set to indicate error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.VL
.LI "[EBADF]"
The descriptor \*Vfildes\*O is not valid.
.LI "[ENOTTY]"
The descriptor \*Vfildes\*O is not associated with a character
special device.
.LI "[ENOTTY]"
The specified request does not apply to the kind of object
that \*Vfildes\*O references.
.LE
.EQ
delim off
.EN
