.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tcgetattr.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 09:07:08 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH tcgetattr 3
.SH NAME
tcgetattr \- Gets the parameters associated with the terminal
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library (\f3libc.a\f1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.nf
\f3#include <termios.h>\fP
.sp .4v
\f3int tcgetattr (
	\f3int \f2file_des\f3,
	\f3struct termios *\f2termios_p\f3 );\fP
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\f2file_des\f1
Specifies an open file descriptor associated with a terminal.
.TP
\f2termios_p\f1
Points to a \f3termios\f1 structure.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "tcgetattr function"
.iX "terminal parameters" 
.br
The
\f3tcgetattr(\|)\fP 
function gets the parameters associated with the object referenced
by the
\f2file_des\^\fP parameter
and stores them in the
\f3termios\^\fP
structure referenced by the
\f2termios_p\^\fP parameter.
.PP
If the device does not support split baud rates, the
input baud rate stored in the
\f3termios\fP
structure will be 0 (zero).
.PP
The
\f3tcgetattr(\|)\fP
function may be called from any process.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.BR "AES Support Level:"
Full use
.SH RETURN VALUES
.br
Upon successful completion, 0 (zero) is returned. Otherwise, 
\-1 is returned and
\f3errno\^\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.sp
.ne 3i
.SH ERRORS
.br
If the
\f3tcgetattr(\|)\fP 
function fails,
.B errno
may be set to one of the following values:
.PP
.TP 1i
[EBADF]
The
\f2file_des\^\fP
parameter is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP
[ENOTTY]
The file associated with the
\f2file_des\^\fP parameter
is not a terminal.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: 
.BR tcsetattr (3)
.PP
Files:
.BR termios (4)
.iX "tcgetattr function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
