.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tcgetpgrp.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 09:07:18 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH tcgetpgrp 3
.SH NAME
tcgetpgrp \-  Gets foreground process group ID
.SH LIBRARY
\f1Standard C Library (\f3libc.a\f1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f3#include <sys/types.h>
.PP
\f3pid_t tcgetpgrp(
.br
	int \f2file_des\f2);
.rS
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\f2file_des
\f1Indicates the open file descriptor for the terminal special file.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "tcgetpgpr function"
.iX "process" "ID group"
.iX "group ID" "foreground process"
.iX "foreground process" "group ID"
.PP
The \f3tcgetpgrp(\|)\f1
function returns the value of the process group ID of the 
foreground process group associated with the terminal. The function 
can be called from a background process; however, the information may 
be subsequently changed by the foreground process.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.BR "AES Support Level:"
Full use
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon 
successful completion, the process group ID of the foreground process 
is returned. Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned and \f3errno\f1
is set to indicate the error.
.sp
.ne 3i
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the
.B tcgetpgrp(\|)
function fails,
.B errno
may be set to one of the following values:
.TP 1i
[EBADF]
The \f2file_des\f1 parameter is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP 1i
[ENOTTY]
The calling process does not have a controlling terminal or the file 
is not the controlling terminal.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
.BR setpgid (2),
.BR setsid (2),
.BR tcsetpgrp (3)
.iX "tcgetpgpr function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
