.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tcsetpgrp.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 09:07:49 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH tcsetpgrp 3
.SH NAME
tcsetpgrp \-  Sets foreground process group ID
.SH LIBRARY
\f1Standard C Library (l\f3ibc.a\f1) 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f3#include <sys/types.h>
.PP
\f3int tcsetpgrp(
.br
	int \f2filedes\f3,
.br
	pid_t \f2pgrp_id \f3);
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\f2filedes
\f1Specifies an open file descriptor.
.TP
\f2pgrp_id
\f1Specifies the process group identifier.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "tcsetpgrp function"
.iX "process" "group ID"
.iX "setting process group ID"
.iX "group ID" "setting for process"
.PP
If the process has a controlling terminal, the \f3tcsetpgrp(\|)\f1 
function sets the foreground process group ID associated with the 
terminal to the value of the \f2pgrp_id\f1 parameter. The 
file associated with the \f2filedes\f1 parameter must be 
the controlling terminal of the calling process, and the controlling 
terminal must be currently associated with the session of the calling 
process. The value of the \f2pgrp_id\f1 parameter must match 
a process group ID of a process in the same session as the calling 
process.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.BR "AES Support Level:"
Full use
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. Otherwise,
a value of -1 is returned and \f3errno\f1 is 
set to indicate the error.
.sp
.ne 3i
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the
.B tcsetpgrp(\|)
function fails,
.B errno
may be set to one of the following values:
.TP 1i
[EBADF]
The \f2filedes\f1 parameter is not a 
valid file descriptor.
.TP 1i
[EINVAL]
The \f2pgrp_id\f1 parameter is invalid.
.TP 1i
[ENOTTY]
The calling process does not have a controlling 
terminal, the file is not the controlling terminal,
or the controlling terminal is no longer associated with the session
of the calling process.
.TP 1i
[EPERM]
The \f2pgrp_id\f1 parameter is valid, 
but matches a process ID or process group ID of a process in another 
session.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: 
.BR tcgetpgrp (3)
.iX "tcsetpgrp function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
