.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tcsetattr.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 09:07:39 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH tcsetattr 3
.SH NAME
tcsetattr \- Sets the parameters associated with the terminal
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library (\f3libc.a\f1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.nf
\f3#include <termios.h>\fP
.sp .4v
\f3int tcsetattr (
	\f3int \f2file_des\f3,
	\f3int \f2optional_actions\f3,
	\f3struct termios *\f2termios_p \f3);\fP
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\f2file_des\f1
Specifies an open file descriptor associated with a terminal.
.TP
\f2optional_actions\f1
Specifies the
options defining how the parameters will be set.
.TP
\f2termios_p\f1
Points to a \f3termios\f1 structure containing the terminal
parameters.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "tcsetattr function"
.iX "terminal parameters" "setting"
.iX "setting terminal parameters"
.iX "parameters, terminal" "setting"
.br
The
\f3tcsetattr(\|)\fP 
function sets the parameters associated with the terminal referred
to by the open file descriptor
from the
\f3termios\^\fP
structure referenced by
\f2termios_p\^\fP
as follows:
.TP 4
\(bu
If 
\f2optional_actions\^\fP
is 
TCSANOW,
the change will occur immediately.
.TP 4
\(bu
If 
\f2optional_actions\^\fP
is 
TCSADRAIN,
the change will occur after all output written to
\f2file_des\^\fP
has been transmitted. This function should be used when changing parameters
that affect output.
.TP 4
\(bu
If 
\f2optional_actions\^\fP
is 
TCSAFLUSH,
the change will occur after all output written to
\f2file_des\^\fP
has been transmitted, and all input so far received but not read will be
discarded before the change is made.
.PP
If the output baud rate
stored in the
\f3termios\fP
structure pointed to by the
\f2termios_p\fP parameter
is the zero baud rate, B0, the modem control lines will no longer
be asserted.
Normally, this will disconnect the line.
.PP
If the input baud rate
stored in the
\f3termios\fP
structure pointed to by the
\f2termios_p\fP parameter
is zero, the input baud rate given to the
hardware will be the same as the output baud rate stored in the
\f3termios\fP
structure.
.PP
.ne 5
Attempts to use the
\f3tcsetattr(\|)\fP
function from a process which is a member of a background process
group on a 
\f2file_des\fP
associated with its controlling terminal causes the process group
to be sent a SIGTTOU signal.
If the calling process is blocking or ignoring SIGTTOU signals,
the process is allowed to perform the operation and no signal is
sent.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.BR "AES Support Level:"
Full use
.SH RETURN VALUES
.br
Upon successful completion, 0 (zero) is returned. Otherwise, 
\-1 is returned and
\f3errno\^\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.br
If the
.BR tcsetattr(\|) 
function
fails,
.B errno
may be set to one of the following values:
.TP 1i
[EBADF]
The
\f2file_des\^\fP
parameter is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP
[EINVAL]
The \f2optional_actions\^\fP
parameter is not a proper value, or an attempt was made to change an
attribute represented in the
.B termios 
structure to an unsupported value.
.TP 1i
[ENOTTY]
The file associated with the
\f2file_des\^\fP parameter
is not a terminal.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
.BR cfgetispeed (3),
.BR tcgetattr (3)
.iX "tcsetattr function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
