.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tcsendbreak.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 09:07:28 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH tcsendbreak 3
.SH NAME
tcsendbreak \-  Sends a break on an asynchronous serial data line 
.SH LIBRARY
\f1Standard C Library (\f3libc.a\f1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f3#include <termios.h>
.PP
\f3int tcsendbreak(
.br
	int \f2filedes\f3,
.br
	int \f2duration \f3);
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\f2filedes
\f1Specifies an open file descriptor.
.TP
\f2duration
\f1Specifies the number of milliseconds that zero-valued 
bits are transmitted. If the value of the \f2duration\f1 parameter 
is 0 (zero), transmission of zero-valued bits is for 250 milliseconds. 
If \f2duration\f1 is not 0, transmission of zero-valued bits is 
for \f2duration\f1
milliseconds.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "tcsendbreak function"
.iX "breaking data transmission"
.PP
If the terminal is using asynchronous serial data transmission, 
the \f3tcsendbreak(\|)\f1 function causes transmission of a continuous 
stream of zero-valued bits for a specific duration.
If the terminal is not using asynchronous serial data transmission, 
the \f3tcsendbreak(\|)\f1 function returns without taking any action.
.PP
A process group is sent a SIGTTOU signal if 
the
.B tcsendbreak(\|) 
function is called from one of its member processes.
If the calling process is blocking or ignoring SIGTTOU signals, the
process is allowed to perform the operation and no signal is sent.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.BR "AES Support Level:"
Full use
.sp
.ne 3i
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. Otherwise, 
\-1 is returned and \f3errno\f1 is 
set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \f3tcsendbreak(\|)\f1 function fails,
.B errno
is set to one of the following values:
.TP 1i
[EBADF]
The \f2filedes\f1 parameter does not 
specify a valid open file descriptor.
.TP 1i
[ENOTTY]
The file associated with the \f2filedes\f1 
parameter is not a terminal. 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: 
.BR tcdrain (3),
.BR tcflow (3),
.BR tcflush (3)
.PP
Files:
.BR termios (4)
.iX "tcsendbreak function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
