.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: times.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/10/14 13:51:40 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH times 3
.SH NAME
\*Ltimes\*O \- Gets process and child process times
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/types.h\*O>
.PP
\*L#include\*O <\*Lsys/times.h\*O>
.PP
\*Ltime_t times\*O(
.ti +0.2i
\*Lstruct tms\*O *\*Vbuffer\*O) ;
.SH PARAMETERS
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vbuffer\*O"
Points to type \*Ltms\*O structure space where system time 
information is stored.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "times function"
.iX "system clock" "times of process and child process"
.iX "times of processes"
The \*Ltimes(\|)\*O function fills the type \*Ltms\*O structure space pointed 
to by the \*Vbuffer\*O parameter with time-accounting information. 
All time values reported by this function are in hardware-dependent 
clock ticks. 
.PP
The times of a terminated child process are included in the 
\*Ltms_cutime\*O and \*Ltms_cstime\*O elements of the parent process 
when a \*Lwait(\|)\*O or \*Lwaitpid(\|)\*O function returns the process 
ID of that terminated child.
.PP
The \*Ltms\*O structure, which  is defined in the \*Lsys/times.h\*O
header file, contains the following members:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Ltime_t   tms_utime\*O"
User time. The CPU time charged while executing user instructions 
of the calling process.
.LI "\*Ltime_t   tms_stime\*O"
System time. The CPU time charged during system execution on 
behalf of the calling process.
.LI "\*Ltime_t   tms_cutime\*O"
User time, children. The sum of the \*Ltms_utime\*O and the 
\*Ltms_cutime\*O times of the child processes.
.LI "\*Ltime_t   tms_cstime\*O"
System time, children. The sum of the \*Ltms_stime\*O and the 
\*Ltms_cstime\*O times of the child processes.
.LE
.PP
When a child process does not wait for its children, its child-process 
times are not included in its times.
.PP
This information comes from the calling process and each of its 
terminated child processes for which a \*Lwait(\|)\*O function 
has been executed.
.SH NOTES
.PP
\*LAES Support Level\*O:  Full use
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Ltimes(\|)\*O function returns 
the elapsed real time in clock ticks since an arbitrary reference time 
in the past (for example, system start-up time). This reference time 
does not change from one \*Ltimes(\|)\*O function 
to another. The return value may overflow the possible range of type 
\*Lclock_t\*O values. When the \*Ltimes(\|)\*O function fails, a value 
of -1 is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lexec\*O(2),
\*Lfork\*O(2),
\*Lgetrusage\*O(2),
\*Lprofil\*O(2),
\*Lstime\*O(3),
\*Lsysconf\*O(3),
\*Ltime\*O(3),
\*Lwait\*O(2)
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Removed an 'm' from Commands per QAR 6104.
Commands:
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
\*Lcc\*O(1)
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Recoded the page to rsml.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.iX "times function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
