.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: timer_delete.3,v $ $Revision: 1.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/11/25 13:57:22 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)timer_delete.3 6.5 1/10/92
.TH timer_delete 3
.SH NAME
\*Ltimer_delete\*O \- Deallocate a previously allocated per-process timer (P1003.4/D11)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
#include \*L<time.h>\*O
.PP
int \*Ltimer_delete\*O (
.br
timer_t \*Vtimerid\*O);
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 8
.I timerid
The timer to deallocate.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "timer_delete function"
.iX "timers" "deallocating timers"
The \*Ltimer_delete\*O function frees a
per-process timer previously allocated by a call to the \*Ltimer_create\*O
function. If the timer is armed when the \*Ltimer_delete\*O
function is called, the timer is disarmed and then removed. No signal
is sent if the timer is deallocated with the \*Ltimer_delete\*O function.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On a successful call, a value of 0 is returned.
.PP
On an unsuccessful call,
a value of \-1 is returned and \*Lerrno\*O is
set to indicate that an error occurred.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The \*Ltimer_delete\*O function fails under the following conditions:
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The timer ID specified by \*Vtimerid\*O is not a valid timer ID.
.TP 15
[ENOSYS]
The function \*Ltimer_delete\*O is not supported by this implementation.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Ltimer_create\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
