.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: time.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 09:08:10 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH time 3
.SH NAME
time \- Gets time
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C Library (\f3libc.a\f1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3#include\f1 <\f3time.h\f1>
.PP
\f3time_t time\f1(
.ti +0.2i
\f3time_t\f1 *\f2tloc\f3) ;
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\f2tloc\fP
Points to the location where the return value is stored. When 
this parameter is a null pointer, no value is stored.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "time function"
.iX "system clock" "getting time"
.iX "clock" "getting time"
The \f3time(\|)\f1 function returns the time in seconds since the epoch. The
epoch is referenced to 00:00:00 CUT (Coordinated Universal Time) 1 Jan 1970.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.BR "AES Support Level:"
Full use
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the \f3time(\|)\fP 
function returns the value of time in seconds since the epoch.
Otherwise, the value (\f3(time_t)\fP - 1) is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
.BR clock (3),
.BR gettimeofday (2),
.BR stime (3)
.iX "time function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
