.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: timezone.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/23 01:39:55 $
.\"
.\" Based on the ctime(3) OSF manpage.
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
...\"
...\"
.TH timezone 3
.SH NAME
\*Ldaylight\*O, \*Ltimezone\*O, \*Ltzname\*O, \*Ltzset\*O - Sets and accesses timezone conversion information
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library: (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "daylight function"
.iX "time conversion functions"
.iX "timezone function"
.iX "tzname function"
.iX "tzset function"
.iX "time units" "converting to strings"
.iX "time units" "storing for later processing"
.iX "time units" "converting to other time units"
.sS
\*L#include <time.h>
.PP
\*Lvoid tzset(void):
.PP
\*Lextern int daylight;
.nL
\*Lextern long timezone;
.nL
\*Lextern char *tzname[];\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Ltzset(\|)\*O function uses the \*L/etc/zoneinfo/localtime\*O
file to set the time conversion information used by the
\*Llocaltime(\|)\*O,
\*Llocaltime_r(\|)\*O,
\*Lctime(\|)\*O,
\*Lctime_r(\|)\*O,
\*Lstrftime(\|)\*O,
and
\*Lmktime(\|)\*O
functions.
If the TZ variable is set, \*Ltzset\*O uses the value of TZ to override
the \*L/etc/zoneinfo/localtime\*O file.
.PP
DEC OSF/1 uses a public-domain timezone-handling package that puts
timezone conversion rules in easily accessible and modifiable files.
These files are in the directory \*L/etc/zoneinfo/sources\*O.  The
timezone compiler \*Lzic\*O(8) converts these files to a special
format described in \*Ltzfile\*O(4) and places them in the
\*L/etc/zoneinfo\*O directory.  This format is readable by the C
library functions that handle timezone information.
.PP
The \*Ltzset(\|)\*O function uses the tzfile-formatted file linked by
\*L/etc/zoneinfo/localtime\*O to set the timezone conversion information.
The \*L/etc/zoneinfo/localtime\*O link is set during installation to
a file in the \*L/etc/zoneinfo\*O directory.  For example, in the
eastern United Stated, \*L/etc/zoneinfo/localtime\*O is linked to
\*L/etc/zoneinfo/US/Eastern\*O.
.PP
If the TZ environment variable is defined, the defined value overrides
the timezone information in \*L/etc/zoneinfo/localtime\*O.  TZ can
be set by a user as a regular environment variable for converting
to alternate time zones.
.PP
When TZ appears in the environment and its value is not a null string,
the value has one of three formats:
.iS
\*L:\*O
.nL
\*L:\*Vpathname\*O
.nL
\*Vstdoffset\*O[\*Vdst\*O[\*Voffset\*O] [\*L,\*Vstart\*O[\*L/\*Vtime\*O]\*L,\*Vend\*O[\*L/\*Vtime\*O]]]
.iE
.PP
If TZ has the single colon format (\*L:\*O), GMT is used.
.PP
If TZ has the colon-pathname format (\*L:\*Vpathname\*O), the characters
following the colon specify the pathname of a \*Ltzfile\*O(4) format
file from which to read the time conversion information.  A pathname
beginning with a slash (/) represents an absolute pathname; otherwise,
the pathname is relative to the system time conversion information
directory \*L/etc/zoneinfo\*O.
.PP
If TZ does not begin with a colon (:), the components of the string
are as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vstd\*O and \*Vdst\*O"
Three or more characters that are the designation for the standard (\*Vstd\*O)
or summer (\*Vdst\*O) time zone.  Only \*Vstd\*O is required.  If \*Vdst\*O
is not supplied, summer time does not apply to the locale.  Upper- and
lower-case letters are explicitly allowed.  Any characters, except digits,
a leading colon (:), comma (,), minus (-), plus (+), and ASCII NUL, are
allowed.
.LI "\*Voffset\*O"
Indicates the value to be added to the local time to arrive at
GMT.  The offset has the form:
.iS
     \*Vhh\*O[\*L:\*Vmm\*O[\*L:\*Vss\*O]]
.iE
.IP
The minutes (\*Vmm\*O) and seconds (\*Vss\*O) are optional.  The hour
(\*Vhh\*O) is required and can be either one or two digits.  The offset
following \*Vstd\*O is required.  Of no offset follows \*Vdst\*O, summer
time is assumed to be one hour ahead of standard time.  One or more digits
can be used; the value is always interpreted as a decimal number.  The hour
value must be between zero and 24.  The value for the minutes and seconds,
if present, must be between zero and 59.  If preceded by a minus sign (-),
the time zone is east of Greenwich; otherwise it is west, which
can be indicated by a preceding plus sign (+).
.LI "\*Vstart\*O and \*Vend\*O"
Indicates when to change to and return from summer time.  The \*Vstart\*O
argument is the date when the change from standard to summer time occurs;
\*Vend\*O is the date for returning from summer time to standard time.
If \*Vstart\*O and \*Vend\*O are not specified, the default is the
US Daylight Saving Time start and end dates.
The format for \*Vstart\*O and \*Vend\*O must be one of the following:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LJ\*Vn\*O"
The Julian day \*Vn\*O (1 \(<= \*Vn\*O \(<= 365).  Leap days are not
counted.  That is, in all years, including leap years, February 28 is day
59 and March 1 is day 60.  It is impossible to explicitly refer to
February 29.
.LI "\*Vn\*O"
The zero-based Julian day  (0 \(<= \*Vn\*O \(<= 365).  Leap days are counted
making it possible to refer to February 29.
.LI "\*LM\*Vm\*L.\*Vn\*L.\*Vd\*O"
The \*Vn\*Oth \*Vd\*O day of month \*Vm\*O where 0 \(<= \*Vn\*O \(<= 5,
0 \(<= \*Vd\*O \(<= 6, 1 \(<= \*Vm\*O \(<= 12.  When \*Vn\*O is 5, it refers
to the last \*Vd\*O day of month \*Vm\*O.  Sunday is day 0.
.LE
.LI "\*Vtime\*O"
Describes the time when, in current time, the change to or return from
summer time occurs.  The \*Vtime\*O parameter has the same format as
\*Voffset\*O, except that there can be no leading minus (-) or plus (+) sign.
If \*Vtime\*O is not specified, the default is 02:00:00.
.LE
.PP
As an example, the TZ variable value EST5EDT4,M4.1.0,M10.5.0 describes
the rule defined in 1987 for the Eastern time zone in the US.  EST
(Eastern Standard Time) is
the designation for standard time, which is 5 hours behind GMT.  EDT
(Eastern Daylight Time)
is the designation for summer time, which is 4 hours behind GMT.  EDT
starts on the first Sunday in April and ends
on the last Sunday in October.  In both cases, since \*Vtime\*O was not
specified, the changes occur at the default time, which is 2:00 a.m.
Note that the start and end dates did not need to be specified since
they are the defaults.
.SS System V Compatibility
For users of the SVID2 habitat, TZ is defined by default in the following
format:
.iS
\*Vstd offset\*O [\*Vdst\*O[\*Voffset\*O] ]
.iE
.PP
For users of the SVID3 habitat, TZ is defined by default in the following
format:
.iS
\*L:\*Vpathname\*O
.iE
.PP
See the previous portion of the DESCRIPTION section for definitions of the
parameters used in these formats.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The
\*Lmktime(\|)\*O
and
\*Ltzset(\|)\*O
functions are supported for multi-threaded applications.
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use \-\- \*Ltzset(\|)\*O
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lctime\*O(3),
\*Ldifftime\*O(3),
\*Lgetenv\*O(3),
\*Lstrftime\*O(3),
\*Ltime\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
