.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: time_lock.3,v $ $Revision: 3.4.4.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:23:24 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\"Copyright (c) 1988 SecureWare, Inc.
.\"   All rights reserved
.\" @(#)tod.3   1.2 17:48:23 3/28/90 SecureWare
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
.TH time_lock 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ltime_lock\*O \- Check time-of-day locking (Enhanced Security)
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Security Library (\*Llibsecurity.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>
.nL
#include <sys/security.h>
.nL
#include <prot.h>
.sp 0.4v
int time_lock (
.nL
	struct pr_passwd *\*Vprpwd\*L );
.P
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vprpwd\*O"
Specifies a protected password entry structure.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "time_lock function"
.iX "time-of-day locking"
.iX "locking time-of-day"
.iX "checking time-of-day lock"
This routine performs time-of-day lock checking for the current
date and time against the time-of-day specification in the
\*Lfd_tod\*O
string of the
\*Vprpwd\*O
argument.
The routine returns 1 if the time lock is on and 0 if there is no
lock.
.P
The
\*Lfd_tod\*O
specification is like that found in the UUCP
\*LSystems\*O
file.
The specification is a comma-separated list of entries.
If the current time matches an entry in the specification, the time
lock is not on.
The entries are scanned until a match is found.
If no match can be found, the time lock is on.
Each entry appears as:
.PP
.oS
\*L<\*Vday\*L><\*Vstart_time\*L\-\*Vend_time\*L>
.oE
.PP
The day may be one of the following:
.VL 10
.LI "Any"
Matches any day of the week.
.LI "Wk"
Matches Monday through Friday.
.LI "Su"
Sunday
.LI "Mo"
Monday
.LI "Tu"
Tuesday
.LI "We"
Wednesday
.LI "Th"
Thursday
.LI "Fr"
Friday
.LI "Sa"
Saturday
.LE
.P
The times are military time, for example, 9:15 am is 0915, 6:00 pm is 1800,
and 12:42 am is 0042.
When
\*Vstart_time\*O
is less than
\*Vend_time\*O,
the range of times contains valid times to login on that day.
When the times are equal or there is only one time (including no time
at all), the entire day is valid.
When
\*Vstart_time\*O
is later than
\*Vend_time\*O,
times outside the range are valid.  For instance, if \*Vstart_time\*O
is 04:15 and \*Vend_time\*O is 02:00, then any time that falls outside
the range of 02:00 to 04:15 is a valid time.
.SH NOTES
.PP
Programs using this routine must be compiled with \%\*L-lsecurity\*O.
.iX "time_lock function"
.\" #endif /* SEC_BASE */
.EQ
delim off
.EN
