.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tmpfile.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/16 22:10:08 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
.\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail 
.\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH tmpfile 3
.SH NAME
\*Ltmpfile\*O \-  Creates a temporary file
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard I/O Package (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <stdio.h>\*O
.sp 0.4v
\*LFILE *tmpfile ( void );\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "tmpfile function"
.iX "files" "temporary"
.iX "creating a temporary file"
.iX "temporary file" "creating"
The \*Ltmpfile(\|)\*O function creates a temporary file and returns
its \*LFILE\*O pointer. The file is opened for update. The temporary
file is automatically deleted when the process using it terminates.
.SH NOTES
.PP
\*LAES Support Level\*O:  Full use
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Ltmpfile(\|)\*O function
returns a pointer to the stream of the file that is created.
Otherwise, it returns a null pointer and sets \*Lerrno\*O
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the \*Ltmpfile(\|)\*O function fails, \*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.VL 1i
.LI "[EMFILE]"
OPEN_MAX
file descriptors are currently open in the calling process.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note
.LI "[EMFILE]"
All available file descriptors are currently open
in the calling process.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "[ENFILE]"
Too many files are currently open in the system.
.LI "[ENOSPC]"
The directory or file system that would contain the
new file cannot be expanded.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lfopen\*O(3),
\*Lmktemp\*O(3),
\*Ltmpnam\*O(3),
\*Lunlink\*O(2),
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note
\*Lgetdtablesize\*O(2)
.\" End Digital-specific information
.iX "tmpfile function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
