.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tmpnam.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 09:08:40 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH tmpnam 3
.SH NAME
tmpnam, tempnam \-  Constructs the name for a temporary file
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard I/O Package (\f3libc.a\f1) 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f3#include <stdio.h>
.PP
\f3char *tmpnam (
.br
	char *\f2s \f3);
.PP
\f3char *tempnam (
.br
	const char *\f2directory\f3, 
.br
	const char \f2*\f2prefix \f3);\f1
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\f2s\f1
Specifies the address of an array of at least the number of bytes 
specified by L_tmpnam, a constant defined in the \f3stdio.h\f1 header
file. 
.TP
\f2directory\f1
Points to the pathname of the directory 
in which the file is to be created. 
.TP
\f2prefix\f1
Points to an initial character sequence 
with which the filename begins. The \f2prefix\f1 parameter 
can be null, or it can point to a string of up to five characters 
to be used as the first characters of the temporary filename.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "tmpnam function"
.iX "tempnam function"
.iX "files" "name for temporary"
.iX "temporary file" "name"
.iX "constructing a name for a temporary file"
.PP
The \f3tmpnam(\|)\f1 and \f3tempnam(\|)\f1 functions 
generate filenames for temporary files.
.PP
The \f3tmpnam(\|)\f1 function generates a filename using the 
pathname defined as P_tmpdir in the \f3stdio.h\f1 header file. 
.PP
Files created using this function reside in a directory intended 
for temporary use, and their names are unique. It is the user's responsibility 
to use the \f3unlink(\|)\f1 function to remove the file when it is no 
longer needed.
.PP
Between the time a filename is created and the file is opened, 
it is possible for some other process to create a file with the same 
name. This should not happen if that other process uses these functions 
or the \f3mktemp(\|)\f1 function, and if the filenames are chosen 
to make duplication by other means unlikely.
.PP
The \f3tempnam(\|)\f1 function allows you to control the choice 
of a directory. If the \f2directory\f1 parameter is null 
or points to a string that is not a pathname for an appropriate directory, 
the pathname defined as P_tmpdir in the\f3 stdio.h \f1header
file is used. If that pathname is not accessible, \f3/tmp\f1 is 
used. You can bypass the selection of a pathname by providing an 
environment variable, \f3TMPDIR\f1, in the user's environment. 
The value of the \f3TMPDIR\f1 variable is a pathname for the desired 
temporary file directory.
.PP
The 
.I prefix
parameter can be used to specify a prefix of
up to 5 characters for the temporary filename.
.SH NOTES
The \f3tmpnam(\|)\f1 function generates a different 
filename each time it is called. If it is called more than TMP_MAX
times by a single process, it starts recycling previously used names.
.PP
.BR "AES Support Level:"
Trial use
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If the \f2s\f1 parameter is null, the nonreentrant version of the
\f3tmpnam(\|)\f1 
function places its result into an internal static area and returns 
a pointer to that area. The next call to this function destroys 
the contents of The area.  The reentrant version of the
.B tmpnam(\|)
function always returns null if 
.I s
is null.
.PP
If the \f2s\f1 parameter is not null, it is assumed 
to be the address of an array of at least the number of bytes specified 
by L_tmpnam. L_tmpnam is a 
constant defined in the \f3stdio.h\f1 header file. 
The \f3tmpnam(\|)\f1 function 
places its results into that array and returns the value of the \f2s\f1 
parameter.
.PP
Upon successful completion, the
.B tempnam(\|) 
function returns a pointer to the generated pathname, suitable for
use in a subsequent call to the 
.B free(\|) 
function.  Otherwise, null is returned and 
.B errno 
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If the 
.B tempnam(\|) 
function fails,
.B errno
may be set to the following value:
.TP 1i
[ENOMEM]
Insufficient storage space is available.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
.BR fopen (3),
.BR free (3),
.BR malloc (3),
.BR mktemp (3),
.BR open (2),
.BR tmpfile (3),
.BR unlink (2)
.iX "tmpnam function"
.iX "tempnam function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
