.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: towlower.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/21 19:43:34 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH towlower 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ltowlower\*O, \*Ltowupper\*O \- Converts uppercase and lowercase wide characters
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include\ <wchar.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lwint_t towlower (
.nL
	wint_t \*Vwc\*L);
.sp 0.4v
\*Lwint_t towupper (
.nL
	wint_t \*Vwc\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETER
.PP
.VL 0.5i
.LI "\*Vwc\*O"
Specifies the wide character to convert.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "towlower function"
.iX "towupper function"
The \*Ltowlower(\|)\*O function converts the uppercase wide character
specified by the \*Vwc\*O parameter into the corresponding lowercase
wide character. The \*Ltowupper(\|)\*O function converts the lowercase
wide character specified by the \*Vwc\*O parameter into the
corresponding uppercase wide character. The behavior of the
\*Ltowlower(\|)\*O and \*Ltowupper(\|)\*O functions are affected
by the \*LLC_CTYPE\*O category of the program's locale.
In a locale where case conversion information is not defined, these
functions determine the case of characters according to the rules of
the C locale.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
In the \*Ltowlower(\|)\*O function,
if the \*Vwc\*O parameter contains a uppercase wide character
that has a corresponding lowercase wide character, that wide character
is returned. Otherwise, the \*Vwc\*O parameter is returned unchanged.
.PP
In the \*Ltowupper(\|)\*O function,
if the \*Vwc\*O parameter contains a lowercase wide character
that has a corresponding uppercase wide character, that wide character
is returned. Otherwise, the \*Vwc\*O parameter is returned unchanged.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lconv\*O(3)/\*Ltolower\*O(3)/\*Ltoupper\*O(3),
\*Lsetlocale\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
