.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ttyslot.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/15 19:58:21 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH ttyslot 3
.SH NAME
ttyslot \-  Finds the slot in the utmp file for the current user
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
\f1Standard C Library (\f3libc.a\f1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f3int ttyslot ( void );\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "ttyslot function"
.iX "files" "utmp"
.iX "user's entry in utmp file"
.PP
The \f3ttyslot(\|)\f1 function returns the index of the current
user's entry in the \f3/var/adm/utmp\f1 file. The \f3ttyslot(\|)\f1
function scans the \f3/var/adm/utmp\f1 file for the name of the terminal
associated with the standard input, the standard output, or the error
output file descriptors (0, 1, or 2).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \f3ttyslot(\|)\f1 function
returns the index of the current user's entry in the
.B /var/adm/utmp
file.  Otherwise,
if an error is encountered
while searching for the terminal name, or if none of the first three
file descriptors (0, 1, and 2) is associated with a terminal device,
0 (zero) is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
.BR getutent (3),
.BR ttyname (3)
.iX "ttyslot function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
