.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: typeahead.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/15 23:23:48 $
.\"
.TH typeahead 3
.SH NAME
\*Ltypeahead\*O \- Checks for typeahead input
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O

\*Lint typeahead(\*Vfd\*L)
    int \*Vfd\*L;\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "typeahead subroutine"
If \*Ltypeahead\*O is enabled, the \*Lcurses\*O program looks for
typeahead input periodically while updating the screen.
If input is found, the current update will be postponed until
\*Lrefresh\*O or \*Ldoupdate\*O is called again.
This allows faster response to commands typed in advance.
.PP
Normally, the input FILE pointer passed to the \*Lnewterm\*O
routine will be used to do this typeahead checking.
If the routine \*Linitscr\*O was called, the input FILE
pointer is passed to \*Lstdin\*O.
.PP
The \*Ltypeahead\*O routine specifies that the file descriptor
\*Lfd\*O is to be used to check for typeahead.  If \*Lfd\*O
is \-1, \*Ltypeahead\*O is disabled.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
No return values are defined for this function.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Ldoupdate\*O(3), \*Linitscr\*O(3), \*Lnewterm\*O(3), \*Lrefresh\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
