.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: umount.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 09:09:30 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH umount 3
.SH NAME
umount \- Unmounts a file system
.SH LIBRARY
System V Compatibility Library (\f3libsys5.a\f1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <sys/mount.h>
.PP
.ft B
int umount(
.br
	char *\f2spec\f3 );
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 
.I spec
Points to the pathname of the special file or file system to be unmounted.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "umount function"
.iX "filesystem" "umounting"
.iX "directory" "umounting a filesystem from"
.PP
The
.B umount(\|)
function unmounts a 
previously-mounted file system contained on the block special file
pointed to by the 
.I spec
parameter.
When the file system is unmounted, the directory mount point
where the file system was mounted returns to its normal
interpretation.
.PP
The
.B umount(\|)
function can only be invoked by the superuser.
.SH NOTES
.PP
Two 
.B umount(\|)
functions are supported by OSF/1: the BSD 
.B umount(\|) 
and the System V 
.BR umount(\|) .
The default 
.B umount(\|)
function is the BSD 
.BR umount(\|) .
To use the version of
.BR umount(\|)
documented on this reference page, you must link with the
.B libsys5
library before you link with
.BR libc .
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.B umount(\|)
function
returns 0 (zero) if the file system was successfully unmounted. 
Otherwise, \-1 is returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.sp
.ne 3i
.SH ERRORS
If the
.B umount(\|)
function
fails,
.B errno 
may be set to one of the following values:
.TP 1i
[EPERM]
The effective user ID of the calling process is not root.
.TP 1i
[ENOENT]
The
.I spec
parameter points to a pathname that does not exist.
.TP 1i
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix of 
.I spec
is not a directory.
.TP 1i
[ENOTBLK]
The device identified by 
.I spec
is not a block-special device.
.TP 1i
[ENXIO]
The device identified by
.I spec
does not exist.
.TP
[EBUSY]
A file on the device pointed to by the
.I spec
parameter is busy.
.TP
[EINVAL]
The device pointed to by the
.I spec
parameter is not mounted.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:
.BR mount (8)
.iX "umount function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
