.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ungetc.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/27 20:08:01 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH ungetc 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lungetc\*O, \*Lungetwc\*O \- Pushes a character back into the input stream
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <stdio.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint ungetc(
.nL
        int \*Vc\*L,
.nL
        FILE *\*Vstream\*L);\*O
.PP
\*L#include <wchar.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lwint_t ungetwc(
.nL
        wint_t \*Vwchar\*L,
.nL
        FILE *\*Vstream\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vc\*O"
Specifies a byte to be inserted into the input stream.
.LI "\*Vstream\*O"
Specifies the input stream.
.\" Added description of wc not included in file from OSF.
.LI "\*Vwchar\*O"
Specifies a wide-character code.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ungetc function"
.iX "ungetc function"
.iX "ungetwc function"
.iX "pushing character back into input"
.iX "character" "pushing back"
.iX "input" "pushing back character"
The \*Lungetc(\|)\*O function converts the byte specified
by the \*Vc\*O parameter into an unsigned \*Lchar\*O and inserts it
into the buffer associated with
the input stream specified by the \*Vstream\*O parameter. This
causes the next call to the \*Lgetc(\|)\*O function to return \*Vc\*O.
.PP
If the \*Vc\*O parameter has a value equal to \*LEOF\*O, the \*Lungetc(\|)\*O
function does not place anything in the buffer and the input stream is
unchanged.
.PP
.\" .zA "defect, 8121, R1.1.2, removed erroneous qualification"
You can always push one byte back onto a stream.
.\" .zZ "defect, 8121, R1.1.2, removed erroneous qualification"
The \*Lfseek(\|)\*O subroutine erases all memory of inserted characters.
.PP
The \*Lungetwc(\|)\*O function inserts the
character corresponding to the wide character code
specified by \*Vwchar\*O into the buffer associated with
the input stream. The character may consist of one or more bytes.
This causes the next call to the \*Lgetwc(\|)\*O
function to return the value of the \*Vwchar\*O parameter.
.PP
If the \*Lungetwc(\|)\*O \*Vwchar\*O parameter is \*LWEOF\*O, the
\*Lungetwc(\|)\*O function does not place anything in the buffer and
the input stream is unchanged.
.PP
The \*Lungetc(\|)\*O and \*Lungetwc(\|)\*O functions do not have any
effect on the external storage corresponding to the stream.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use (\*Lungetc(\|)\*O).
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lungetc(\|)\*O returns \*Vc\*O if it succeeds in inserting the
byte in the stream. Otherwise, it returns a value of \*LEOF\*O.
.PP
The \*Lungetwc(\|)\*O function returns a value of \*Vwchar\*O if the
operation of inserting the character in the stream is successful. Otherwise,
the function returns a value of \*LWEOF\*O.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the following condition occurs, the \*Lungetwc(\|)\*O function sets
\*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value.
.VL
.LI "[EILSEQ]"
Indicates that the wide-character code does not correspond to a valid
character.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lfseek\*O(3),
\*Lgetc\*O(3),
\*Lgetwc\*O(3),
\*Lsetbuf\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
