.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH unlockpt 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lunlockpt\*O - Unlocks a pseudoterminal master and slave pair
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library \*L(libc.a)\*O
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lint unlockpt(
.nL
	int \*Vmastfd\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vmastfd\*O"
Specifies a file descriptor that is returned from a successful open
of the master pty device.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "unlockpt function"
.iX "master pty" "unlocking a master and slave pair"
.iX "slave pty" "unlocking a master and slave pair"
The \*Lunlockpt()\*O function unlocks a slave pty from its associated master
counterpart.
It does this by clearing a lock flag so that the slave device can be opened.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lunlockpt()\*O function returns
a value of 0.
Otherwise, it returns a value of -1.
.PP
Failure may result under the following conditions:
.ML
.LI
The file descriptor specified by the \*Vmastfd\*O parameter is not
associated with a master pty.
.LI
The file descriptor specified by the \*Vmasfd\*O parameter is not an open
file descriptor.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lopenpty(3)\*O.
.PP
Guides:
\*ESystem V Compatibility User's Guide\*O
.iX "opentpty function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
