.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: usleep.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 09:10:19 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.TH usleep 3
.SH NAME
usleep \-  Suspends execution for an interval
.SH LIBRARY
\f1Standard C Library \f3(libc.a)\f1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f3unsigned usleep(
.br
	unsigned \f2mseconds \f3);
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\f2mseconds
\f1The number of microseconds to suspend execution for.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "usleep function"
.iX "process" "suspending execution"
.iX "execution" "suspending"
.iX "suspending process execution"
.PP
The 
.B usleep(\|) 
function suspends the
current process from execution for the number of microseconds 
specified by the 
.I mseconds
parameter.  
Because of other activity in the system, or because of 
the time spent in processing the call,
the actual suspension time may
be longer than specified.
.PP
The 
.B usleep(\|) 
function sets an interval timer and pauses until 
it occurs.  The previous state of this timer is saved and restored. 
If the sleep time exceeds the time to the expiration of the previous 
timer, the process sleeps only until the signal would have occurred, 
and the signal is sent a short time later.
.PP
The
.B usleep(\|) 
function uses the
.B setitimer(\|) 
function.  It requires eight system calls 
each time it is invoked.  A similar but less compatible function can 
be obtained with a single select; it would not restart after signals, 
but would not interfere with other uses of 
.BR setitimer(\|) . 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: 
.BR alarm (3),
.BR getitimer (2),
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR sigvec (2),
.BR sleep (3)
.iX "usleep function"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
