.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vprintf.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.8.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/15 01:30:39 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH vprintf 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lvprintf\*O, \*Lvfprintf\*O, \*Lvsprintf\*O \- Formats a variable number of parameters for output
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <stdio.h>
.nL
#include <stdarg.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint vprintf(
.nL
        \*Lconst char *\*Vformat\*L,
.nL
        \*Lva_list \*Vprintarg\*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint vfprintf(
.nL
        \*LFILE *\*Vstream\*L,
.nL
        \*Lconst char *\*Vformat\*L,
.nL
        va_list \*Vprintarg\*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lint vsprintf(
.nL
        char *\*Vstring\*L,
.nL
        const char *\*Vformat\*L,
.nL
        va_list \*Vprintarg\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vformat\*O"
Specifies a character string that contains two types of objects:
.ML
.LI
Plain characters, which are copied to the output stream.
.LI
Conversion specifications, each of which causes zero or more items
to be fetched from the \*Lstdarg\*O parameter lists.
.LE
.LI "\*Vprintarg\*O"
Specifies the arguments to be printed.
.LI "\*Vstream\*O"
Specifies the output stream.
.LI "\*Vstring\*O"
Specifies the buffer to which output is printed.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "vprintf function"
.iX "vprintf function"
.iX "vfprintf function"
.iX "vsprintf function"
.iX "parameters" "formatting for output"
.iX "formatting output parameters"
.iX "output" "formatting parameters"
The \*Lvprintf(\|)\*O, \*Lvfprintf(\|)\*O, and \*Lvsprintf(\|)\*O
functions format and write \*Lstdarg\*O parameter lists.
.PP
These functions are the same as the \*Lprintf(\|)\*O, \*Lfprintf(\|)\*O,
and \*Lsprintf(\|)\*O functions, respectively, except that these
functions are not called with a variable number of parameters.
Instead, \*Lvprintf(\|)\*O,
\*Lvfprintf(\|)\*O, and \*Lvsprintf(\|)\*O are
called with a parameter list pointer as defined by \*Lstdarg\*O.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example demonstrates how the \*Lvfprintf(\|)\*O
function can be used to write an error routine:
.PP
.oS
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdarg.h>

void    error(char *funct, char *fmt, ...)
{
        va_list args;
        /*
        ** Display the name of the function that called error
        */
        fprintf(stderr, "ERROR in %s: ", funct);
        /*
        ** Display the remainder of the message
        */
        va_start(args, fmt);
        vfprintf(stderr, fmt, args);
        va_end(args);
        abort();
}
.oE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lprintf\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
