.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: wait.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 13:08:19 $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" @(#)wait.3f 6.1 (Berkeley) 5/15/85
.\"
.TH wait 3
.SH NAME
wait \- wait for a process to terminate
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B integer function wait (status)
.br
.B integer status
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B Wait
causes its caller to be suspended until a signal is received or one of
its child processes terminates.
If any child has terminated since the last
.B wait,
return is immediate; if there are no children, return is immediate
with an error code.
.PP
If the returned value is positive, it is the process ID of the child and
.B status
is its termination status (see \*Lwait\*O(2)).
If the returned value is negative, it is the negation of a system error code.
.SH FILES
.PP
.ie \nM /usr/ucb/lib/libU77.a
.el /usr/lib/libU77.a
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lwait\*O(2), \*Lsignal\*O(3), \*Lkill\*O(3), \*Lperror\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
