.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: wcscat.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/19 16:32:06 $
.\"
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH wcscat 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lwcscat\*O, \*Lwcscmp\*O, \*Lwcscpy\*O - Perform operations on wide-character strings
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <wchar.h>
.PP
\*Lwchar_t *wcscat(
.nL
	wchar_t *\*Vwcstring1\*L,
.nL
	const wchar_t *\*Vwcstring2\*L);
.PP
\*Lint wcscmp(
.nL
	const wchar_t *\*Vwcstring1\*L,
.nL
	const wchar_t *\*Vwcstring2\*L);
.PP
\*Lwchar_t *wcscpy(
.nL
	wchar_t *\*Vwcstring1\*L,
.nL
	const wchar_t *\*Vwcstring2\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vwcstring1\*O"
Points to a location containing the first wide-character string.
.LI "\*Vwcstring2\*O"
Points to a location containing the second wide-character string.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "wcscmp function"
.iX "wcscpy function"
.iX "wcscat function"
.iX "wide-characters" "appending copy" "wcscat function"
.iX "wide-characters" "comparing two wchar_t strings" "wcscmp function"
.iX "wide-characters" "copying contents of parameter" "wcscpy function"
The \*Lwcscat(\|)\*O, \*Lwcscmp(\|)\*O, and \*Lwcscpy(\|)\*O
functions operate on null-terminated, wide-character
strings. The string arguments to these functions are expected to
contain a null wide character marking the end of the string. Boundary
checking is not done when a copy or concatenation operation is performed.
.PP
The \*Lwcscat(\|)\*O function appends a copy of the wide-character string
pointed to by the \*Vwcstring2\*O parameter (including the terminating null
wide-character code) to the end of the wide-character string pointed to by the
\*Vwcstring1\*O parameter.  The initial wide-character code of \*Vwcstring2\*O
overwrites the null wide-character code at the end of \*Vwcstring1\*O.
.PP
The \*Lwcscmp(\|)\*O function compares two \*Lwchar_t \*Ostrings.
The \*Lwcscmp(\|)\*O function compares wide characters until it finds
two wide characters that are not equal or until it has reached a
terminating null wide character.
.PP
The \*Lwcscmp(\|)\*O function compares strings based on the machine
collating order. It does not use the locale-dependent sorting order.
Use the \*Lwcscoll(\|)\*O function for
locale-dependent sorting.
.PP
The \*Lwcscpy(\|)\*O function copies the contents of the \*Vwcstring2\*O
parameter (including the ending \*Lwchar_t\*O null character) into the
\*Vwcstring1\*O parameter. If copying occurs
between overlapping objects, the behavior of the \*Lwcscpy(\|)\*O
function is undefined.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lwcscat(\|)\*O and
\*Lwcscpy(\|)\*O
functions return a pointer to the
resulting string, \*Vwcstring1\*O.
Otherwise, these functions return a null pointer.
.PP
Upon successful completion, the
\*Lwcscmp(\|)\*O
function returns an integer whose value
is greater than 0 (zero) if
\*Vwcstring1\*O is greater than \*Vwcstring2\*O,
returns 0 (zero) if the strings are
equivalent, and returns an integer whose value is less than 0 (zero)
if \*Vwcstring1\*O is less than \*Vwcstring2\*O.
When a successful comparison cannot be made,
these functions return a value of 0 (zero).
The sign of a nonzero return value is determined by the sign
of the difference between the values of the first pair of wide-character
codes that differ in the objects being compared.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lstring\*O(3)/\*Lstrcat\*O(3)/\*Lstrcmp\*O(3)/\*Lstrcpy\*O(3),
\*Lwcschr\*O(3),
\*Lwcscoll\*O(3),
\*Lwcsncat\*O(3),
\*Lwcsspn\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
