.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: wcscoll.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/19 16:37:16 $
.\"
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH wcscoll 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lwcscoll\*O \- Compares wide-character strings using collation information
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <wchar.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lint\ wcscoll(
.nL
	const wchar_t *\*Vwcs1\*L,
.nL
	const wchar_t *\*Vwcs2\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 0.5i
.LI "\*Vwcs1\*O"
Points to a wide-character string.
.LI "\*Vwcs2\*O"
Points to a wide-character string.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "wcscoll function"
.iX "wide-character strings" "comparing"
The \*Lwcscoll(\|)\*O function compares the two wide-character
strings pointed to by the \*Vwcs1\*O and \*Vwcs2\*O parameters
based on the collation values specified by the \*LLC_COLLATE\*O
category of the program's current locale.
.PP
The \*Lwcscoll(\|)\*O function may be unsuccessful if the wide-character strings
specified by the \*Vwcs1\*O or \*Vwcs2\*O parameters contain characters outside
the domain of the current collating sequence.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Lwcscoll(\|) \*Ofunction differs from the \*Lwcscmp(\|)\*O
function in that the former compares wide characters based on
locale-dependent collating order, while the latter compares
wide characters based on machine collating order.
The\*L wcscoll(\|)\*O function is more
expensive in terms of time than the \*Lwcscmp(\|)\*O function because
of the overhead of obtaining the collation values from the current
locale.
.PP
If you are doing multiple comparisons based on the current locale's
collation values using the same set of text strings, the
\*Lwcsxfrm(\|)\*O transformation function in conjunction with the
\*Lwcscmp(\|)\*O function may be more efficient than using the
\*Lwcscoll(\|)\*O collation function because the string is transformed
based on the locale tables only once.  However, the transformation
function must convert all characters in the string for each level of a
multi-level collation. In comparison, the collation function stops
comparing characters at the first inequality. These efficiency
tradeoffs make the most efficient method for a specific application
dependent on the number of repeated comparisons of strings within
the set, the number of collation levels for the current locale, and
the values of the strings within the set.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Upon successful completion, the \*Lwcscoll(\|)\*O
function returns an integer whose value is greater than 0 (zero) if
\*Vwcs1\*O is greater than \*Vwcs2\*O, returns 0 (zero) if the strings are
equivalent, and returns an integer whose value is less than 0 (zero)
if \*Vwcs1\*O is less than \*Vwcs2\*O.
The sign of a nonzero return value is determined by the sign
of the difference between the collation weights
of the first pair of wide-character
codes that differ in the objects being compared.
.PP
The \*Lwcscoll(\|)\*O function indicates error conditions by setting
\*Lerrno\*O; however, there is no return value to indicate an error. To check
for errors, \*Lerrno\*O should be set to 0 (zero), then checked upon return from the
\*Lwcscoll(\|)\*O function. If \*Lerrno \*O has a nonzero value, an error occurred.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the following condition occurs, the \*Lwcscoll(\|)\*O
function sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value.
.VL
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The wide-character string pointed to by the \*Vwcs1\*O or \*Vwcs2\*O
sting contained characters outside of the domain of the collating sequence.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lstrcoll\*O(3)
\*Lwcscmp\*O(3), \*Lwcsxfrm\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
