.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: wcschr.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/15 00:05:08 $
.\"
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.\"build rmifdef tbl eqn
.TH wcschr 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lwcschr\*O, \*Lwcsrchr\*O \- Search for a character in a wide-character string
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <wchar.h>
.PP
\*Lwchar_t *wcschr(
.nL
	const wchar_t *\*Vwcstring\*L,
.nL
	wint_t \*Vwidecharacter\*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lwchar_t *wcsrchr(
.nL
	const wchar_t *\*Vwcstring\*L,
.nL
	wint_t \*Vwidecharacter\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*Vwcstring\*O"
Points to a string to search.
.LI "\*Vwidecharacter\*O"
Specifies a wide character to locate.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "wcschr function"
.iX "wcsrchr function"
.iX "wchar_t character" "locating in a wide-character string"
The \*Lwcschr(\|)\*O function locates the first occurrence of the
\*Vwidecharacter\*O in the the string pointed to by the \*Vwcstring\*O
parameter.
The \*Lwcsrchr(\|)\*O function locates the last occurrence of the
\*Vwidecharacter\*O parameter. The terminating null wide character
is considered to be part of the string.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lwcschr(\|)\*O and \*Lwcsrchr(\|)\*O functions return
a pointer to the \*Vwidecharacter\*O
parameter, or a null pointer if \*Vwidecharacter\*O
does not occur in the string.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lwcswcs\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
