.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: wcspbrk.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/19 16:40:19 $
.\"
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH wcspbrk 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lwcspbrk\*O \- Locates the first occurrence of a wide character in a wide-character string
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <wchar.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lwchar_t *wcspbrk(
.nL
	const wchar_t *\*Vwcs1\*L,
.nL
	const wchar_t *\*Vwcs2\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 0.5i
.LI "\*Vwcs1\*O"
Pointer to the string being searched.
.LI "\*Vwcs2\*O"
Pointer to a string containing a set of wide characters.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "wcspbrk function"
.iX "character" "locating first occurrence in a string"
.iX "string" "locating first occurrence of a character"
The \*Lwcspbrk(\|)\*O function locates the first occurrence in
the string pointed to by the \*Vwcs1\*O parameter of any wide character
from the string pointed to by the \*Vwcs2\*O parameter.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lwcspbrk(\|)\*O function returns a pointer to the wide character, or
the null pointer
if no wide character from the \*Vwcs2\*O parameter
occurs in the \*Vwcs1 \*Oparameter.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lstrpbrk\*O(3),
\*Lwcswcs\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
