.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: wcsspn.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/19 16:41:29 $
.\"
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH wcsspn 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lwcsspn\*O, \*Lwcscspn\*O \- Returns the length of the initial segment of a wide-character string
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <wchar.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lsize_t wcsspn(
.nL
	const wchar_t *\*Vwcstring1\*L,
.nL
	const wchar_t *\*Vwcstring2\*L);\*O
.PP
\*Lsize_t wcscspn(
.nL
	const wchar_t *\*Vwcstring1\*L,
.nL
	const wchar_t *\*Vwcstring2\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 1i
.LI "\*Vwcstring1\*O"
Points to a wide-character string being checked for an initial segment.
.LI "\*Vwcstring2\*O"
Points to a wide-character string containing a set of wide characters that
define the initial segment.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "wcsspn function"
.iX "wcscspn function"
.iX "wide characters" "returning number"
.iX "wide-character strings" "computing number of wchar_t characters" "wcscspn function"
The \*Lwcsspn(\|)\*O and \*Lwcscspn(\|)\*O functions compute the
number of wide characters in the initial segment of a
wide-character string.
The \*Lwcsspn(\|)\*O function considers the initial segment to
consist of all wide characters that are
included in the set of wide characters pointed to by the \*Vwcstring2\*O
parameter. The function counts these
wide characters until it finds one that is not included in the set.
The \*Lwcscspn(\|)\*O function considers the initial segment to
consist of all wide characters that are \*Enot\*O
included in the set of wide characters pointed to by the \*Vwcstring2\*O
parameter. The function counts these wide
characters until it finds one that \*Eis\*O included in the set.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On successful completion,
the \*Lwcsspn(\|)\*O and \*Lwcscspn(\|)\*O functions return the
number of wide characters in the segment.
.\" Remove next line...No error behavior defined in source as per XPG4
.\" Otherwise, the functions return a value of -1 cast to \*Lsize_t\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lsetlocale\*O(3),
\*Lstrspn\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
