.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: wcstombs.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/15 00:05:13 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH wcstombs 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lwcstombs\*O \- Converts a wide-character string into a multibyte character string
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <stdlib.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lsize_t wcstombs(
.nL
        \*Lchar *\*Vs\*L,
.nL
        \*Lconst wchar_t *\*Vpwcs\*L,
.nL
        \*Lsize_t \*Vn\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vs\*O"
Points to the location where the converted multibyte-character string
is stored.
.LI "\*Vpwcs\*O"
Points to the wide-character string to be converted.
.LI "\*Vn\*O"
Specifies the number of bytes to be converted.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "wcstombs function"
.iX "wcstombs function"
.iX "wide character string" "converting to multibyte"
.iX "converting wide characters"
.iX "multibyte character string" "converting from wide"
The \*Lwcstombs(\|)\*O function converts a wide-character string
into a multibyte-character string and stores the converted string in a
location pointed to by the \*Vs\*O parameter.
The \*Lwcstombs(\|)\*O function stores only the number of bytes specified
by the \*Vn\*O parameter as the output string.
When copying between objects that overlap, the behavior of
\*Lwcstombs(\|)\*O is undefined.
.PP
The behavior of the \*Lwcstombs(\|)\*O
function is affected by the \*LLC_CTYPE\*O category of the current locale.
In environments that use shift-state-dependent encoding, the array
pointed to by \*Vs\*O begins in its initial shift state.
.PP
The \*Lwcstombs(\|)\*O function converts each character in the
\*Vpwcs\*O wide-character string and stores the converted character in
the \*Vs\*O string. The \*Lwcstombs(\|)\*O
function stops storing characters in the
output array under the following conditions:
.ML
.LI
The function has encountered a null wide character in the \*Vpwcs\*O wide-character
string and has written a corresponding null byte in \*Vs\*O.
.LI
The function cannot store the next converted wide character because there
is not enough room in \*Vs\*O, that is, the function would have to store
more than \*Vn\*O bytes in the \*Vs\*O parameter to store the character.
.LI
The function has already stored \*Vn\*O bytes in the \*Vs\*O parameter.
.LI
The function has encountered an invalid wide-character code in the \*Vpwcs\*O
wide-character string.
.LE
.PP
If the \*Lwcstombs(\|)\*O function stores exactly \*Vn\*O bytes in the
\*Vs\*O parameter, the function does not store a terminating null byte.
.PP
To ensure that there is enough room in the \*Vs\*O parameter to fit
the converted string, you can allocate enough memory to store the
maximum multibyte string based on the number of wide characters in
the wide-character string. Allocate the number of bytes (and pass the
value in the \*Vn\*O parameter) equal the length of the \*Vpwcs\*O
wide-character string multiplied by the value of \*LMB_CUR_MAX\*O
in the current locale. The \*Lwcslen(\|)\*O function returns the
length of a wide-character string.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If the \*Lwcstombs(\|)\*O function does not encounter an invalid
wide-character code, the function returns the number of bytes
stored, not including the terminating null byte.
When  the \*Lwcstombs(\|)\*O function encounters a wide-character code that
does not correspond to a valid multibyte character, the function
returns a value of -1 cast to \*Lsize_t\*O and sets \*Lerrno\*O
to indicate the error.
.PP
If the \*Lwcstombs(\|)\*O function cannot store all of the converted
characters in the output array, the function stops before storing a character
that would overflow the output array, and returns the number of bytes
stored in the array.
When the return value is \*Vn\*O, the output array is not null terminated.
.PP
If the \*Vs\*O parameter is a null pointer, the \*Lwcstombs(\|)\*O
function returns the number of bytes required for the character array.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occur, the \*Lwcstombs(\|)\*O
function sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.VL 1i
.LI "[EILSEQ]"
The array pointed to by the \*Vpwcs\*O parameter
contains an entry that does not correspond with a valid multibyte character.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lmblen\*O(3),
\*Lmbstowcs\*O(3),
\*Lmbtowc\*O(3),
\*Lwcslen\*O(3),
\*Lwctomb\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
