.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: wcswidth.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/19 16:46:53 $
.\"
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH wcswidth 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lwcswidth\*O \- Determines the display width of wide-character strings
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <wchar.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint wcswidth(
.nL
	const wchar_t *\*Vpwcs\*L,
.nL
	size_t \*Vn\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 0.5i
.LI "\*Vn\*O"
Specifies the maximum number of wide characters whose
display width is to be determined.
.LI "\*Vpwcs\*O"
Contains a pointer to the wide-character string.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "wcswidth function"
The \*Lwcswidth(\|)\*O function determines the number of display columns to be
occupied by the number of wide characters specified by the \*Vn\*O parameter in
the string pointed to by the \*Vpwcs\*O parameter. The behavior of the
\*Lwcswidth(\|)\*O function is affected by the \*LLC_CTYPE\*O category. Fewer
than the number of wide characters specified by the \*Vn\*O parameter are
counted if a \*LNULL\*O character is encountered first.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example finds the display column width of a
wide-character string.
.PP
.oS
#include <wchar.h>
#include <locale.h>
main()
{
	wchar_t *pwcs;
	int	retval, n ;
	(void)setlocale(LC_ALL, "");
	/* Let pwcs point to a wide-character null terminated
	** string. Let n be the number of wide characters whose
	** display column width is to be determined.
	*/
	retval=  wcswidth( pwcs, n );
	if(retval == -1){
		/* Error handling. Invalid wide character code
		** encountered in the wide character string pwcs.
		*/
	}
}
.oE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lwcswidth(\|)\*O function returns the number of display columns to be
occupied by the number of wide characters (up to the terminating null
wide character specified by the \*Vn\*O parameter (or fewer) in the
string pointed
to by the \*Vpwcs\*O parameter. A value of 0 (zero) is returned if the \*Vpwcs\*O
parameter is a wide-character \*LNULL\*O pointer or a pointer to a
wide-character \*LNULL\*O pointer
(that is, \*Vpwcs\*O or \*L*\*Vpwcs\*O is \*LNULL\*O). If
the \*Vpwcs\*O parameter points to an unusable wide character
code, a value of -1 is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lwcwidth\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
