.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: wcswcs.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/21 19:57:01 $
.\"
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH wcswcs 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lwcswcs\*O \- Searches for a substring in a wide-character string.
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <wchar.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lwchar_t *wcswcs(
.nL
	wchar_t *\*Vwcstring1\*L,
.nL
	wchar_t *\*Vwcstring2\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 1i
.LI "\*Vwcstring1\*O"
Points to the wide-character string being searched.
.LI "\*Vwcstring2\*O"
Points to the wide-character string to be located.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "wcswcs function"
.iX "wide characters" "locating in a string"
The \*Lwcswcs(\|)\*O function locates first occurrence of a
wide-character string in
another wide-character string.
It locates the first occurrence in the string pointed
to by the \*Vwcstring1\*O parameter of the sequence of \*Lwchar_t\*O characters
(excluding the terminating null wide character) in the string pointed
to by the \*Vwcstring2 \*Oparameter.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lwcswcs(\|)\*O function returns a pointer to the located
wide-character string
or the null pointer if the wide-character string
is not found.  If the \*Vwcstring2\*O parameter points
to a wide-character
string with zero length, the function returns the \*Vwcstring1\*O
parameter.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lstrstr\*O(3),
\*Lwcspbrk\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
