.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: wcsxfrm.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/21 19:59:03 $
.\"
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH wcsxfrm 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lwcsxfrm\*O \- Transforms wide-character strings for collation in the current locale
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <wchar.h>
.sp 0.4v
\*Lsize_t wcsxfrm(
.nL
	wchar_t *\*Vws1\*L,
.nL
	const wchar_t *\*Vws2\*L,
.nL
	size_t \*Vn\*L);
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 0.5i
.LI "\*Vws1\*O"
Contains a pointer to the destination wide-character string.
.LI "\*Vws2 \*O"
Contains a pointer to the source wide-character string.
.LI "\*Vn\*O"
Specifies the maximum number of wide-character codes
to place into the array specified by \*Vws1\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "wcsxfrm function"
The \*Lwcsxfrm(\|)\*O function\*L \*Ois used to transform the
wide-character string specified by the \*Vws2\*O parameter into a string of
wide-character codes based on the collation values of the wide
characters in the current locale setting as specified by the
\*LLC_COLLATE\*O category. No more than the number of wide characters
specified by the \*Vn\*O parameter are copied into the array specified
by the \*Vws1\*O parameter. This transformation is such that when two
such transformed wide-character strings are obtained and the
transformed strings are compared using the \*Lwcscmp(\|)\*O function, the
result obtained would be same as would be obtained by a direct call to
the \*Lwcscoll(\|)\*O function on the two original wide-character
strings.
.PP
When operating on overlapping strings, the behavior of this
function is unreliable.
.SH NOTES
.PP
If you are doing multiple comparisons based on the current locale's
collation values using the same set of text strings, the
\*Lwcsxfrm(\|)\*O transformation function in conjunction with the
\*Lwcscmp(\|)\*O function may be more efficient than using the
\*Lwcscoll(\|)\*O collation function because the string is transformed
based on the locale tables only once.  However, the transformation
function must convert all characters in the string for each level of a
multi-level collation. In comparison, the collation function stops
comparing characters at the first inequality. These efficiency
tradeoffs make the most efficient method for a specific application
dependent on the number of repeated comparisons of strings within
the set, the number of collation levels for the current locale, and
the values of the strings within the set.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
If the \*Vws1\*O parameter is a wide-character null pointer, the
\*Lwcsxfrm(\|)\*O function returns the number of wide-character
elements (not including the terminating null wide character)
required to store the transformed wide-character string. If the count
specified by the \*Vn\*O parameter is sufficient to hold the
transformed string in the \*Vws1\*O parameter (including the
terminating null wide character) the return value is set to the actual
number of wide-character elements placed in the \*Vws1\*O parameter,
not including the terminating null wide character. If the return value is
equal to or greater than the value specified by the \*Vn\*O parameter,
the contents of the array pointed to by the \*Vws1\*O parameter are
indeterminate.  This occurs whenever the value specified by the \*Vn\*O
parameter is too small to hold the entire transformed string.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the following condition occurs, the \*Lwcsxfrm(\|)\*O function sets
\*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value.
.VL
.LI "[EINVAL]"
The \*Vws2\*O parameter
contains wide-character codes outside the domain of the collating
sequence defined by the current locale.
.LI "[ENOMEM]"
There was insufficient memory available to allocate temporary storage
for this operation.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lsetlocale\*O(3),
\*Lstring\*O(3)/\*Lstrxfrm\*O(3),
\*Lwcscmp\*O(3),
\*Lwcscoll\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
