.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: wctomb.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/27 20:52:39 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH wctomb 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lwctomb\*O \- Converts a wide character into a multibyte character
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <stdlib.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint wctomb(
.nL
        \*Lchar *\*Vs\*L,
.nL
        \*Lwchar_t \*Vwchar\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vs\*O"
Points to the location where the conversion is stored.
.LI "\*Vwchar\*O"
Specifies the wide character to be converted.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "wctomb function"
.iX "converting a wide character"
.iX "wide character" "converting to multibyte"
.iX "multibyte character" "converting from wide"
The \*Lwctomb(\|)\*O function converts a wide character into a
multibyte character. The \*Lwctomb(\|)\*O function stores no more than
\*LMB_CUR_MAX\*O bytes.
.PP
The behavior of the \*Lwctomb(\|)\*O
function is affected by the \*LLC_CTYPE\*O category of the current locale.
In environments with shift-state dependent encoding,
calls to the \*Lwctomb(\|)\*O function with the \*Vwchar\*O
parameter set to 0
(zero) put the function in its initial shift state. Subsequent calls with
the \*Vwchar\*O parameter
set to nonzero values alter the state of the function as necessary.
Changing the \*LLC_CTYPE\*O category of the locale causes the shift state of
the function to be unreliable.
.PP
The implementation behaves as though no other function calls the
\*Lwctomb(\|)\*O function.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.VL 1.5i
.LI "\*LAES Support Level:\*O"
Full use.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
When the \*Vs\*O parameter is not a null pointer,
the \*Lwctomb(\|)\*O function returns a value determined as follows:
.ML
.LI
If the \*Vwchar\*O parameter corresponds to a valid multibyte character,
the \*Lwctomb(\|)\*O
function returns the number of bytes in the multibyte character.
.LI
If the \*Vwchar\*O parameter does not correspond to a valid multibyte character,
the \*Lwctomb(\|)\*O
function returns a value of -1, and sets \*Lerrno\*O to indicate the error.
.LE
.PP
When the \*Vs\*O parameter is a null pointer, the return value depends on the
environment in the following way:
.ML
.LI
In environments where encoding is not state dependent,
\*Lwctomb(\|)\*O returns a value of 0 (zero).
.LI
In environments where encoding is state dependent,
\*Lwctomb(\|)\*O returns a nonzero value.
.LE
.PP
In no case is the returned value greater than the value of
\*LMB_CUR_MAX\*O.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If any of the following conditions occur, the \*Lwctomb(\|)\*O
function sets \*Lerrno\*O to the corresponding value:
.VL 1i
.LI "[EILSEQ]"
The \*Vwchar\*O parameter does not correspond to a valid multibyte character.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lmblen\*O(3),
\*Lmbstowcs\*O(3),
\*Lmbtowc\*O(3),
\*Lwcstombs\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
