.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: wctype.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/19 16:48:19 $
.\"
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH wctype 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lwctype\*O \- Gets a handle to classify wide characters
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C library \*L(libc.a)\*O
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <wchar.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lwctype_t wctype(
.nL
	const char *\*Vproperty\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vproperty\*O"
Points to a string that identifies a
character class.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "wctype function"
.\" .zA "defect, 7371, R1.1.2, Reworded first two paragraphs"
The \*Lwctype(\|)\*O function obtains a handle for valid property names for
wide characters, as defined in the current locale. The handle is of data type
\*Lwctype_t\*O, and it can be used as the \*Vwc_prop\*O parameter in the
\*Liswctype(\|)\*O function to check whether a wide character belongs to
this class (see the \*Liswctype\*O(3) reference page).
.\" .zZ "defect, 7371, R1.1.2, Reworded first two paragraphs"
Values returned by the \*Lwctype(\|)\*O
function are valid until the \*Lsetlocale(\|)\*O function modifies the value of
the \*LLC_CTYPE\*O environment variable. The \*Vproperty\*O parameter
can have a value equal to one of the basic character classes or to any
other character class that is defined for a customized locale.
The characters included in each class are specified in the locale
definition file (see the \*Llocaledef\*O(1) and \*Llocale\*O(4)
reference pages for more information).
The basic character classes are as follows:
.VL
.LI "\*Lalnum\*O"
A combination of the classes \*Lalpha\*O and \*Ldigit\*O.
.LI "\*Lalpha\*O"
Alphabetic (letter) characters. This class automatically includes characters in
the \*Lupper\*O and \*Llower\*O classes.
.LI "\*Lblank\*O"
Blank characters, such as the space or tab character.
.LI "\*Lcntrl\*O"
Control characters. This class does not include
characters in the \*Lalpha\*O or \*Lprint\*O class.
.LI "\*Ldigit\*O"
Numeric digit characters. This class includes the following characters:
.IP
.oS
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
.oE
.LI "\*Lgraph\*O"
Graphic characters for printing. This class does not include
characters in the
\*Lspace\*O or \*Lcntrl\*O class but includes all characters
in the \*Lalpha\*O, \*Ldigit\*O, and \*Lpunct\*O classes.
.LI "\*Llower\*O"
Lowercase characters. This class does not include
characters in the \*Lcntrl\*O, \*Ldigit\*O, \*Lpunct\*O, or
\*Lspace\*O class. At a minimum, the \*Llower\*O class includes
the 26 lowercase US-ASCII
characters. These are:
.IP
.oS
a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z
.oE
.LI "\*Lprint\*O"
Print characters. This class includes characters in
the \*Lgraph\*O and \*Lspace\*O classes
but does not include characters in the \*Lcntrl\*O class.
.LI "\*Lpunct\*O"
Punctuation characters. This class does not include
characters in the \*Lspace\*O, \*Lalpha\*O,
\*Ldigit\*O, or \*Lcntrl\*O class.
.LI "\*Lspace\*O"
Space characters. At a minimum,
this class includes the space, form-feed, newline,
carriage-return, tab, and vertical-tab characters.
.LI "\*Lupper\*O"
Uppercase characters. At a minimum, this class includes
the 26 uppercase US ASCII characters.
These are:
.IP
.oS
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
.oE
.LI "\*Lxdigit\*O"
Hexadecimal characters. This class includes the following characters:
.IP
.oS
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 A B C D E F a b c d e f
.oE
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
.\" .zA "defect, 8399, R1.1.2, corrected return value if character class invalid"
On successful completion, the \*Lwctype(\|)\*O function
returns a value of type \*Lwctype_t\*O, which is a handle for valid
property names in the current locale. The function returns the value
0 cast to \*Lwctype_t\*O if the \*Vproperty\*O parameter specifies
a character class that is not valid for the current locale.
.\" .zZ "defect, 8399, R1.1.2, corrected return value if character class invalid"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Llocaledef\*O(1).
.PP
Files:
\*Llocale\*O(4).
.PP
Functions:
\*Lctype\*O(3),
\*Liswctype\*O(3),
\*Lsetlocale\*O(3),
\*Lwctype\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
