.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: wcwidth.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/19 16:50:49 $
.\"
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH wcwidth 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lwcwidth\*O \- Determines the display width of wide characters
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <wchar.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lint  wcwidth(
.nL
	wint_t \*Vwc\*L);\*O
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 0.5i
.LI "\*Vwc\*O"
Specifies a wide character.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "wcwidth function"
The \*Lwcwidth(\|)\*O function determines the number of display columns to be
occupied by the wide character specified by the \*Vwc\*O parameter. The behavior
of the \*Lwcwidth(\|)\*O function is determined by the \*LLC_CTYPE\*O category.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example finds the display width of a wide character.
.PP
.oS
#include <string.h>
#include <locale.h>

main()
{
	wchar_t wc;
	int   retval;
	(void)setlocale(LC_ALL, "");
	/* Let wc be the wide character whose
	** display width is to be found.
	*/
	retval= wcwidth( wc );
	if(retval == -1){
		/*
		** Error handling. Invalid wide character in wc.
		*/
	}
}
.oE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lwcwidth(\|)\*O function returns the number of display columns to be
occupied by the \*Vwc\*O parameter. If the \*Vwc\*O parameter is a
null wide character, a value of 0 (zero) is returned. If the \*Vwc\*O parameter
points to an invalid wide character code, a value of -1 is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions: \*Lwcswidth\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
