.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: wnoutrefresh.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/15 23:24:16 $
.\"
.TH wnoutrefresh 3
.SH NAME
\*Lwnoutrefresh\*O, \*Ldoupdate\*O \- Performs an efficient refresh
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <curses.h>\*O

\*Lint wnoutrefresh(\*Vwin\*L)
    WINDOW \(**\*Vwin\*L;\*O

\*Lint doupdate(\|)\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "wnoutrefresh subroutine"
.iX "doupdate subroutine"
.iX "wrefresh subroutine" "wnoutrefresh subroutine"
The \*Lwnoutrefresh\*O routine updates screens more
efficiently than using the \*Lwrefresh\*O routine by itself.
The \*Lwnoutrefresh\*O routine copies the named window
to a data structure referred to as the virtual screen (\*Lstdscr\*O).
The virtual screen contains what a program intends to display
on the physical terminal screen.
.PP
The routine \*Ldoupdate\*O compares the virtual screen to
the physical screen and then does the actual update.
These two routines allow multiple updates with more efficiency than
\*Lwrefresh\*O.
.PP
The routine \*Lwrefresh\*O works by calling \*Lwnoutrefresh\*O
and then calling \*Ldoupdate\*O.
If a programmer wants to output several windows at once,
a series of calls to \*Lwrefresh\*O will result in
alternating calls to \*Lwnoutrefresh\*O and \*Ldoupdate\*O,
causing several bursts of output to the screen.
If \*Lwnoutrefresh\*O is called first for each window,
\*Ldoupdate\*O only needs to be called once, resulting in
only one burst of output.  This usually results in fewer total
characters being transmitted and less CPU time used.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lwnoutrefresh\*O and \*Ldoupdate\*O functions return
OK on success and ERR on error.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lwrefresh\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
