.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: write_rnd.3,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/06 20:42:08 $
.\"
.TH write_rnd 3
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lwrite_rnd\*O, \*Lread_rnd\*O \- Sets and returns IEEE dynamic rounding mode for floating-point operations
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.\" Include this section if your reference page is in Section
.\" 3 and is one of multiple reference pages for routines 
.\" in a particular library, for example: 
.\"
Standard C Library (\*Llibc.so\*O, \*Llibc.a\*O)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L#include <float.h>\*O
.PP
\*Lunsigned int write_rnd(
.nL
        unsigned int  \*Vrnd);\*O
.PP
\*Lunsigned int read_rnd();\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "write_rnd" "set ieee floating-point rounding mode"
.iX "read_rnd" "read ieee floating-point rounding mode"
.iX "ieee" "floating-point rounding mode"
The \*Lwrite_rnd\*O function sets the dynamic rounding mode in the
floating-point control register (fpcr) for IEEE floating-point operations and
returns the previous dynamic rounding mode.  Dynamic rounding mode for IEEE
floating-point operations is enabled for code generated by the
DEC OSF/1 C compiler by specifying \*L\-fprm d\*O to \*Lcc\*O(1), and
by using the \*Ld\*O floating-point instruction operator in assembly language code.
.PP
Specify \*Vrnd\*O as one of the following constants defined in \*Lfloat.h\*O
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l.
_
.sp 4p
Constant@Meaning
.sp 4p
_
.sp 6p
FP_RND_RZ@T{
Round toward zero (chopped rounding)
T}
.sp
FP_RND_RN@T{
Round toward nearest (normal rounding)
T}
.sp
FP_RND_RP@T{
Round toward plus infinity
T}
.sp
FP_RND_RM@T{
Round toward minus infinity
T}
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.PP
The \*Lread_rnd\*O function returns the current dynamic rounding mode for
floating-point operations.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lwrite_rnd\*O function returns the previous IEEE floating-point rounding mode.
The \*Lread_rnd\*O function returns the current IEEE floating-point rounding mode.

.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lcc\*O(1).
.PP
Files: \*Lfloat.h\*O.
.PP
\*EAssembly Language Programmer's Guide\*O.
.PP
\*EAlpha Architecture Reference Manual\*O.
.PP
\*EIEEE Standard for Binary Floating-Point Arithmetic\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
