.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmArrowButton.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 18:50:45 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmArrowButton 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmArrowButton\*O \- The ArrowButton widget class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/ArrowB.h>
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmArrowButton"
.iX "widget class" "ArrowButton"
ArrowButton consists of a directional arrow surrounded by a
border shadow.  When it is selected, the shadow changes
to give the appearance that the
ArrowButton has been pressed in.  When the
ArrowButton is unselected, the shadow reverts to give the appearance that the
ArrowButton is released, or out.
.SS "Classes"
ArrowButton inherits behavior and resources
from \*LCore\*O and \*LXmPrimitive\*O classes.
.PP 
The class pointer is \*LxmArrowButtonWidgetClass\*O.
.PP 
The class name is \*LXmArrowButton\*O.
.SS "New Resources"
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \*LXmN\*O or
\*LXmC\*O prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \*LXm\*O prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (C),
set by using \*LXtSetValues\*O (S),
retrieved by using \*LXtGetValues\*O (G), or is not applicable (N/A).
.PP
.\" NROFF HACK START
.TS
center ;
CB ss
lB lB lB
lB lB lB
l l l.
XmArrowButton Resource Set
_
Name	Default	Access
\ \ \ \ \ \ Class	\ \ \ \ \ \ Type
_
_
XmNactivateCallback	NULL	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCallback	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCallbackList
_
XmNarmCallback	NULL	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCallback	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCallbackList
_
XmNarrowDirection	XmARROW_UP	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCArrowDirection	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ unsigned char
_
XmNdisarmCallback	NULL	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCallback	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCallbackList
_
XmNmultiClick	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCMultiClick	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ unsigned char
_
.TE
.\" NROFF HACK END
.VL  
.LI "\*LXmNactivateCallback\*O"
Specifies a list of callbacks that is called
when the ArrowButton is activated.
To activate the button, press and release \*LBSelect\*O
while the pointer is inside
the ArrowButton widget.  Activating the ArrowButton
also disarms it.
The reason sent by this callback is \*LXmCR_ACTIVATE\*O.
.LI "\*LXmNarmCallback\*O"
Specifies a list of callbacks that is called
when the ArrowButton is armed.
To arm this widget, press \*LBSelect\*O
while the pointer is inside the ArrowButton.
The reason sent by this callback is \*LXmCR_ARM\*O.
.LI "\*LXmNarrowDirection\*O"
Sets the arrow direction.
The following are values for this resource:
.wH .rS 
.ML
.LI
\*LXmARROW_UP\*O.
.LI
\*LXmARROW_DOWN\*O.
.LI
\*LXmARROW_LEFT\*O.
.LI
\*LXmARROW_RIGHT\*O.
.LE 
.wH .rE
.LI "\*LXmNdisarmCallback\*O"
Specifies a list of callbacks that is called
when the ArrowButton is disarmed.
To disarm this widget, press and release
\*LBSelect\*O while the pointer is inside the ArrowButton.
The reason for this callback is \*LXmCR_DISARM\*O.
.LI "\*LXmNmultiClick\*O"
If a button click is followed by another button click within the time
span specified by the display's multi-click time, and this resource is
set to \*LXmMULTICLICK_DISCARD\*O, do not process the second click.
If this resource is set to \*LXmMULTICLICK_KEEP\*O, process the event
and increment \*Vclick_count\*O in the callback structure.
When the button is not in a menu, the default value is
\*LXmMULTICLICK_KEEP\*O.
.LE 
.SS "Inherited Resources"
ArrowButton inherits behavior and resources from the following
superclasses.  For a complete description of each resource, refer to the
man page for that superclass.
.PP
.\" NROFF HACK START
.TS
center ;
CB ss
lB lB lB
lB lB lB
l l l.
XmPrimitive Resource Set
_
Name	Default	Access
\ \ \ \ \ \ Class	\ \ \ \ \ \ Type
_
_
XmNbottomShadowColor	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBottomShadowColor	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNbottomShadowPixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBottomShadowPixmap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixmap
_
XmNforeground	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCForeground	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNhelpCallback	NULL	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCallback	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCallbackList
_
XmNhighlightColor	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHighlightColor	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNhighlightOnEnter	False	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHighlightOnEnter	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNhighlightPixmap	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHighlightPixmap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixmap
_
XmNhighlightThickness	2	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHighlightThickness	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
.wH .tH
XmNnavigationType	XmNONE	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCNavigationType	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XmNavigationType
_
XmNshadowThickness	2	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCShadowThickness	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNtopShadowColor	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCTopShadowColor	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNtopShadowPixmap	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCTopShadowPixmap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixmap
_
XmNtraversalOn	True	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCTraversalOn	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNunitType	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCUnitType	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ unsigned char
_
XmNuserData	NULL	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCUserData	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtPointer
_
.TE
.\" NROFF HACK END
.PP
.wH .in 0 
.\" NROFF HACK START
.TS
center ;
CB ss
lB lB lB
lB lB lB
l l l.
Core Resource Set
_
Name	Default	Access
\ \ \ \ \ \ Class	\ \ \ \ \ \ Type
_
_
XmNaccelerators	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCAccelerators	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtAccelerators
_
XmNancestorSensitive	dynamic	G
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCSensitive	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNbackground	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBackground	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNbackgroundPixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCPixmap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixmap
_
XmNborderColor	XtDefaultForeground	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBorderColor	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNborderPixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCPixmap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixmap
_
XmNborderWidth	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBorderWidth	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNcolormap	dynamic	CG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCColormap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Colormap
_
XmNdepth	dynamic	CG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCDepth	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ int
_
XmNdestroyCallback	NULL	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCallback	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCallbackList
_
XmNheight	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHeight	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNinitialResourcesPersistent	True	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCInitialResourcesPersistent	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNmappedWhenManaged	True	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCMappedWhenManaged	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNscreen	dynamic	CG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCScreen	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Screen *
_
.wH .tH
XmNsensitive	True	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCSensitive	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNtranslations	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCTranslations	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtTranslations
_
XmNwidth	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCWidth	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNx	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCPosition	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Position
_
XmNy	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCPosition	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Position
_
.TE
.\" NROFF HACK END
.wH .in  
.SS "Callback Information"
A pointer to the following structure is passed to each callback:
.sS
.iS
.ta .25i 1.1i
typedef struct
{
	int	\*Vreason\*L;
	XEvent	\*V* event\*L;
	int	\*Vclick_count\*L;
} XmArrowButtonCallbackStruct;
.iE
.sE
.wH .fi
.VL .75i 
.LI "\*Vreason\*O"
Indicates why the callback was invoked.
.LI "\*Vevent\*O"
Points to the \*LXEvent\*O that triggered the callback.
.LI "\*Vclick_count\*O"
This value is valid only when the reason is \*LXmCR_ACTIVATE\*O.
It contains the number of clicks in the last multiclick sequence
if the \*LXmNmultiClick\*O resource is set to \*LXmMULTICLICK_KEEP\*O;
otherwise it contains \*L1\*O.
The activate callback is invoked for each click if \*LXmNmultiClick\*O
is set to \*LXmMULTICLICK_KEEP\*O.
.LE 
.SS "Translations"
XmArrowButton includes translations for XmPrimitive.
Additional XmArrowButton translations are listed below.
These translations may not directly correspond to a
translation table.
.iS
.ta 1.5i
BSelect Press:	Arm()
BSelect Click:	Activate()
	Disarm()
BSelect Release:	Activate()
	Disarm()
BSelect Press 2+:	MultiArm()
BSelect Release 2+:	MultiActivate()
.sp \n(PDu
KSelect:	ArmAndActivate()
KHelp:	Help()
.wH .fi
.iE
.PP
.ne 4i
.SS "Action Routines"
The XmArrowButton action routines are described below:
.VL  
.LI "\*LActivate()\*O:"
Draws the shadow in the unselected state.
If the pointer is within the ArrowButton,
calls the callbacks for \*LXmNactivateCallback\*O.
.LI "\*LArm()\*O:"
Draws the shadow in the selected state and
calls the callbacks for \*LXmNarmCallback\*O.
.nL
.ne 8
.LI "\*LArmAndActivate()\*O:"
Draws the shadow in the selected state and
calls the callbacks for \*LXmNarmCallback\*O.
Arranges for the shadow to be drawn in the unselected state and
the callbacks for \*LXmNactivateCallback\*O and \*LXmNdisarmCallback\*O
to be called, either immediately or at a later time.
.LI "\*LDisarm()\*O:"
Draws the shadow in the unselected state and
calls the callbacks for \*LXmNdisarmCallback\*O.
.LI "\*LHelp()\*O:"
Calls the callbacks for \*LXmNhelpCallback\*O if any exist.
If there are no help callbacks for this widget, this action calls the
help callbacks for the nearest ancestor that has them.
.LI "\*LMultiActivate()\*O:"
If \*LXmNmultiClick\*O is \*LXmMULTICLICK_DISCARD\*O, this action does
nothing.
.PP
If \*LXmNmultiClick\*O is \*LXmMULTICLICK_KEEP\*O, this action does the
following:
Increments \*Vclick_count\*O in the callback structure.
Draws the shadow in the unselected state.
If the pointer is within the ArrowButton, calls the
callbacks for \*LXmNactivateCallback\*O.
Calls the callbacks for \*LXmNdisarmCallback\*O.
.LI "\*LMultiArm()\*O:"
If \*LXmNmultiClick\*O is \*LXmMULTICLICK_DISCARD\*O, this action does
nothing.
If \*LXmNmultiClick\*O is \*LXmMULTICLICK_KEEP\*O, this action
draws the shadow in the selected state and calls the callbacks for
\*LXmNarmCallback\*O.
.LE
.nL
.ne 30
.SS "Additional Behavior"
This widget has the additional behavior described below:
.VL  
.LI "\*L<EnterWindow>\*O:"
Draws the ArrowButton shadow in its selected state if the
pointer leaves and re-enters the window while BSelect is pressed.
.LI "\*L<LeaveWindow>\*O:"
Draws the ArrowButton shadow in its unselected state
if the pointer leaves the window while BSelect is pressed.
.LE
.SS "Virtual Bindings"
The bindings for virtual keys are vendor specific.
For information about bindings for virtual buttons and keys, see \*LVirtualBindings(3X)\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LCore(3X)\*O, \*LXmCreateArrowButton(3X)\*O, and \*LXmPrimitive(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
