.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmClipboardLock.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 18:53:41 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1988 by Massachusetts Institute of Technology
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmClipboardLock 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmClipboardLock\*O \- A clipboard function that locks the clipboard
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
\&#include <Xm/CutPaste.h>
.sp \n(PDu
int \*LXmClipboardLock\*L (\*Vdisplay, window\*L)
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Display	\*V* display\*L;
	Window	\*Vwindow\*L;
.wH .fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmClipboardLock"
.iX "clipboard functions" "XmClipboardLock"
\*LXmClipboardLock\*O locks the clipboard from access by another application until
\*LXmClipboardUnlock\*O is called.  All clipboard functions lock and unlock
the clipboard to prevent simultaneous access.  This function allows the
application to keep the clipboard data from changing between calls to
\*LInquire\*O and
other clipboard functions.  The application does not need to
lock the clipboard between calls to \*LXmClipboardStartCopy\*O and
\*LXmClipboardEndCopy\*O or to \*LXmClipboardStartRetrieve\*O and
\*LXmClipboardEndRetrieve\*O.
.PP 
If the clipboard is already locked by another application, \*LXmClipboardLock\*O
returns an error status.  Multiple calls to this function by the same
application increases the lock level.
.VL 1.2i 
.LI "\*Vdisplay\*O"
Specifies a pointer to the \*LDisplay\*O structure that was returned in a
previous call to \*LXOpenDisplay\*O or \*LXtDisplay\*O.
.LI "\*Vwindow\*O"
Specifies a widget's window ID that relates the application window to the
clipboard.  The widget's window ID can be obtained by using
\*LXtWindow\*O.
The same application instance should pass the same window ID to each of the
clipboard functions that it calls.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUE
.VL 1.2i 
.LI "\*LClipboardSuccess\*O"
The function is successful.
.LI "\*LClipboardLocked\*O"
The function failed because the clipboard was locked by another
application.  The application can continue to call the function again with
the same parameters until the lock goes away.  This gives the application
the opportunity to ask if the user wants to keep trying or to give up
on the operation.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmClipboardEndCopy(3X)\*O, \*LXmClipboardEndRetrieve(3X)\*O,
\*LXmClipboardStartCopy(3X)\*O, \*LXmClipboardStartRetrieve(3X)\*O, and
\*LXmClipboardUnlock(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
