.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmClipboardInquireCount.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 18:53:01 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1988 by Massachusetts Institute of Technology
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmClipboardInquireCount 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmClipboardInquireCount\*O \- A clipboard function that returns the number of data item formats
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
\&#include <Xm/CutPaste.h>
.sp \n(PDu
.ta 1i
int \*LXmClipboardInquireCount\*L (\*Vdisplay, window, count,
	max_format_name_length\*L)
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Display	\*V* display\*L;
	Window	\*Vwindow\*L;
	int	\*V* count\*L;
	unsigned long	\*V* max_format_name_length\*L;
.wH .fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmClipboardInquireCount"
.iX "clipboard functions" "XmClipboardInquireCount"
\*LXmClipboardInquireCount\*O returns the number of data item formats available
for the data item in the clipboard.  This function also returns the
maximum name-length for all formats in which the data item is
stored.
.VL 1.65i 
.LI "\*Vdisplay\*O"
Specifies a pointer to the \*LDisplay\*O structure that was returned in a
previous call to \*LXOpenDisplay\*O or \*LXtDisplay\*O.
.LI "\*Vwindow\*O"
Specifies a widget's window ID that relates the application window to the
clipboard.  The widget's window ID can be obtained by using
\*LXtWindow\*O.
The same application instance should pass the same window ID to each of the
clipboard functions that it calls.
.LI "\*Vcount\*O"
Returns the number of data item formats available for the data item
in the clipboard.  If no formats are available, this argument equals zero.
The count includes the formats that were passed by name.
.LI "\*Vmax_format_name_length\*O"
Specifies the maximum length of all format names for the data item in
the clipboard.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUE
.VL 1.65i 
.LI "\*LClipboardSuccess\*O"
The function is successful.
.LI "\*LClipboardLocked\*O"
The function failed because the clipboard was locked by another
application.  The application can continue to call the function again with
the same parameters until the lock goes away.  This gives the application
the opportunity to ask if the user wants to keep trying or to give up
on the operation.
.LI "\*LClipboardNoData\*O"
The function could not find data on the clipboard corresponding to the
format requested.
This could occur because the clipboard is empty; there is data
on the clipboard but not in the requested format; or the data in
the requested format was passed by name and is no longer available.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmClipboardStartCopy(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
