.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmClipboardInquireFormat.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/15 22:43:56 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1988 by Massachusetts Institute of Technology
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmClipboardInquireFormat 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmClipboardInquireFormat\*O \- A clipboard function that returns a specified format name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
\&#include <Xm/CutPaste.h>
.sp \n(PDu
.ta 1i
int \*LXmClipboardInquireFormat\*L (\*Vdisplay, window, index, 
	format_name_buf, buffer_len, copied_len\*L)
.ta .5i 1.6i
	Display	\*V* display\*L;
	Window	\*Vwindow\*L;
	int	\*Vindex\*L;
	XtPointer	\*Vformat_name_buf\*L;
	unsigned long	\*Vbuffer_len\*L;
	unsigned long	\*V* copied_len\*L;
.wH .fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmClipboardInquireFormat"
.iX "clipboard functions" "XmClipboardInquireFormat"
\*LXmClipboardInquireFormat\*O returns a specified
format name for the data
item in the clipboard.  If the name must be truncated, the function
returns a warning status.
.VL 1.3i 
.LI "\*Vdisplay\*O"
Specifies a pointer to the \*LDisplay\*O structure that was returned in a
previous call to \*LXOpenDisplay\*O or \*LXtDisplay\*O.
.LI "\*Vwindow\*O"
Specifies a widget's window ID that relates the application window to the
clipboard.  The widget's window ID can be obtained by using
\*LXtWindow\*O.
The same application instance should pass the same window ID to each of the
clipboard functions that it calls.
.LI "\*Vindex\*O"
Specifies which of the ordered format names to obtain.  If this index
is greater than the number of formats for the data item,
this function returns a zero in the \*Vcopied_len\*O argument.
.LI "\*Vformat_name_buf\*O"
Specifies the buffer that receives the format name.
.LI "\*Vbuffer_len\*O"
Specifies the number of bytes in the format name buffer.
.LI "\*Vcopied_len\*O"
Specifies the number of bytes in the string copied to the buffer.  If this
argument equals zero, there is no \*Vnth\*O format for the data item.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUE
.VL 1.3i 
.LI "\*LClipboardSuccess\*O"
The function is successful.
.LI "\*LClipboardLocked\*O"
The function failed because the clipboard was locked by another
application.  The application can continue to call the function again with
the same parameters until the lock goes away.  This gives the application
the opportunity to ask if the user wants to keep trying or to give up
on the operation.
.nL
.ne 8
.LI "\*LClipboardTruncate\*O"
The data returned is truncated because the user did not provide a buffer
large enough to hold the data.
.LI "\*LClipboardNoData\*O"
The function could not find data on the clipboard corresponding to the
format requested.
This could occur because the clipboard is empty; there is data
on the clipboard but not in the requested format; or the data in
the requested format was passed by name and is no longer available.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmClipboardStartCopy(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
