.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmClipboardRegisterFormat.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 18:53:49 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1988 by Massachusetts Institute of Technology
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmClipboardRegisterFormat 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmClipboardRegisterFormat\*O \- A clipboard function that registers a new format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
\&#include <Xm/CutPaste.h>
.sp \n(PDu
int \*LXmClipboardRegisterFormat\*L (\*Vdisplay, format_name, format_length\*L)
.ta .5i 1.75i
	Display	\*V* display\*L;
	char	\*V* format_name\*L;
	int	\*Vformat_length\*L;
.wH .fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmClipboardRegisterFormat"
.iX "clipboard functions" "XmClipboardRegisterFormat"
\*LXmClipboardRegisterFormat\*O
registers a new format.  Each format stored on the
clipboard should have a length associated with it;
this length must be known to the clipboard
routines.
Formats are known as targets in the \*VInter-Client Communication Conventions Manual\*O
(ICCCM).
All of the formats specified by the ICCCM conventions are
preregistered.  Any other format that the application wants to use must
either be 8-bit
data or be registered via this routine.  Failure to
register the length of the data results in incompatible applications across
platforms having different byte-swapping orders.
.nL
.ne 9
.VL 1.5i 
.LI "\*Vdisplay\*O"
Specifies a pointer to the \*LDisplay\*O structure that was returned in a
previous call to \*LXOpenDisplay\*O or \*LXtDisplay\*O.
.LI "\*Vformat_name\*O"
Specifies the string name for the new format (target).
.LI "\*Vformat_length\*O"
Specifies the format length in bits (8, 16, or 32).
.LE 
.SH RETURN VALUE
.VL 1.5i 
.LI "\*LClipboardBadFormat\*O"
The \*Vformat_name\*O must not be NULL, and the \*Vformat_length\*O
must be 8, 16, or 32.
.LI "\*LClipboardSuccess\*O"
The function is successful.
.LI "\*LClipboardLocked\*O"
The function failed because the clipboard was locked by another
application.  The application can continue to call the function again with
the same parameters until the lock goes away.  This gives the application
the opportunity to ask if the user wants to keep trying or to give up
on the operation.
.LI "\*LClipboardFail\*O"
The function failed because the format was already registered with this
length.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmClipboardStartCopy(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
