.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmClipboardEndRetrieve.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 18:52:51 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1988 by Massachusetts Institute of Technology
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmClipboardEndRetrieve 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmClipboardEndRetrieve\*O \- A clipboard function that ends a copy from the clipboard
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
\&#include <Xm/CutPaste.h>
.sp \n(PDu
int \*LXmClipboardEndRetrieve\*L (\*Vdisplay, window\*L)
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Display	\*V* display\*L;
	Window	\*Vwindow\*L;
.wH .fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmClipboardEndRetrieve"
.iX "clipboard functions" "XmClipboardEndRetrieve"
\*LXmClipboardEndRetrieve\*O suspends copying data
incrementally from the clipboard.
It tells the clipboard routines that the application is through copying an item
from the clipboard.  Until this function is called, data items can be
retrieved incrementally from the clipboard by calling
\*LXmClipboardRetrieve\*O.
.VL 1.2i 
.LI "\*Vdisplay\*O"
Specifies a pointer to the \*LDisplay\*O structure that was returned in a
previous call to \*LXOpenDisplay\*O or \*LXtDisplay\*O.
.LI "\*Vwindow\*O"
Specifies a widget's window ID that relates the application window to the
clipboard.  The widget's window ID can be obtained by using
.ne 3
\*LXtWindow\*O.
The same application instance should pass the same window ID to each of the
clipboard functions that it calls.
.LE 
.SH RETURN VALUE
.VL 1.2i 
.LI "\*LClipboardSuccess\*O"
The function is successful.
.LI "\*LClipboardLocked\*O"
The function failed because the clipboard was locked by another
application.  The application can continue to call the function again with
the same parameters until the lock goes away.  This gives the application
the opportunity to ask if the user wants to keep trying or to give up
on the operation.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmClipboardRetrieve(3X)\*O, \*LXmClipboardStartCopy(3X)\*O, and
\*LXmClipboardStartRetrieve(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
