.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmCreateSimpleRadioBox.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 19:04:07 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmCreateSimpleRadioBox 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmCreateSimpleRadioBox\*O \- A RowColumn widget convenience creation function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/RowColumn.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Widget XmCreateSimpleRadioBox (\*Vparent, name, arglist, argcount\*L)
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\*Vparent\*L;
	String	\*Vname\*L;
	ArgList	\*Varglist\*L;
	Cardinal	\*Vargcount\*L;
.wH .fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmCreateSimpleRadioBox"
.iX "creation functions" "XmCreateSimpleRadioBox"
\*LXmCreateSimpleRadioBox\*O creates an instance of a RowColumn widget
of type \*LXmWORK_AREA\*O and returns the associated widget ID.
.PP 
This routine creates a Radio Box and its ToggleButtonGadget children.
The name of each button is button_\*Vn\*O, where \*Vn\*O is an integer
from 0 to one minus the number of buttons in the menu.
Buttons are named and created in the order in which they are specified
in the RowColumn simple menu creation resources supplied in the argument
list.
.PP
.ne 6
.VL .75i 
.LI "\*Vparent\*O"
Specifies the parent widget ID
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Specifies the name of the created widget
.LI "\*Varglist\*O"
Specifies the argument list
.LI "\*Vargcount\*O"
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument list
(\*Varglist\*O)
.LE 
.PP 
A number of resources exist specifically for use with this and
other simple menu creation routines.
The only button type allowed in the \*LXmNbuttonType\*O resource is
\*LXmRADIOBUTTON\*O.
For a complete definition of RowColumn and its associated resources, see
\*LXmRowColumn(3X)\*O.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the RowColumn widget ID.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmCreateRadioBox(3X)\*O,
\*LXmCreateRowColumn(3X)\*O,
\*LXmCreateSimpleCheckBox(3X)\*O,
\*LXmRowColumn(3X)\*O, and
\*LXmVaCreateSimpleRadioBox(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
