.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmCreateScrolledList.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 19:02:36 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmCreateScrolledList 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmCreateScrolledList\*O \- The List ScrolledList convenience creation function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/List.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Widget XmCreateScrolledList (\*Vparent, name, arglist, argcount\*L)
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\*Vparent\*L;
	String	\*Vname\*L;
	ArgList	\*Varglist\*L;
	Cardinal	\*Vargcount\*L;
.wH .fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmCreateScrolledList"
.iX "creation functions" "XmCreateScrolledList"
\*LXmCreateScrolledList\*O creates an instance of a List widget
that is contained within a ScrolledWindow.  All ScrolledWindow subarea
widgets are automatically created by this function. The ID returned
by this function is that of the List widget.
Use this ID for all normal List operations, as well as those that
are relevant for the ScrolledList widget.
.PP 
All arguments to either the List or the ScrolledWindow widget can be
specified at creation time using this function.
Changes to initial position and size are sent only to the ScrolledWindow
widget.
Other resources are sent to the List or the ScrolledWindow widget as
appropriate.
.PP 
This function forces the following initial values for ScrolledWindow
resources:
.ML
.LI
\*LXmNscrollingPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmAPPLICATION_DEFINED\*O.
.LI
\*LXmNvisualPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmVARIABLE\*O.
.LI
\*LXmNscrollBarDisplayPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmSTATIC\*O.
(No initial value is forced for the List's
\*LXmNscrollBarDisplayPolicy\*O.)
.LI
\*LXmNshadowThickness\*O is set to 0.
.LE 
.PP 
To obtain the ID of the
ScrolledWindow widget associated with the ScrolledList, use
the Xt Intrinsics \*LXtParent\*O function.
The name of the ScrolledWindow
created by this function is formed by concatenating the letters \*LSW\*O
onto the end of the \*Vname\*O specified in the parameter list.
.VL .75i 
.LI "\*Vparent\*O"
Specifies the parent widget ID
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Specifies the name of the created widget
.LI "\*Varglist\*O"
Specifies the argument list
.LI "\*Vargcount\*O"
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument list
(\*Varglist\*O)
.LE 
.PP 
For a complete definition of List and its associated resources, see
\*LXmList(3X)\*O.
.PP
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the List widget ID.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmList(3X)\*O and \*LXmScrolledWindow(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
