.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmCvtCTToXmString.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 19:05:19 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmCvtCTToXmString 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmCvtCTToXmString\*O \- A compound string function that converts compound text to a compound string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
XmString XmCvtCTToXmString (\*Vtext\*L)
.ta .5i 1.75i
	char	\*V* text\*L;
.wH .fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmCvtCTToXmString"
.iX "compound string functions" "XmCvtCTToXmString"
\*LXmCvtCTToXmString\*O converts a (char *) string in compound text
format to a compound string.
The application must call \*LXtAppInitialize\*O before calling this
function.
Conversion of compound text to compound strings is implementation
dependent.
.VL .75i 
.LI "\*Vtext\*O"
Specifies a string in compound text format to be converted to a compound
string.
.LE 
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a compound string derived from the compound text.
The compound text is assumed to be NULL-terminated; NULLs within the
compound text are handled correctly.
The handling of HORIZONTAL TABULATION (HT) control characters within the
compound text is undefined.
The compound text format is described in the X Consortium Standard
\*VCompound Text Encoding\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmCvtXmStringToCT(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
