.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmDropTransferStart.3X,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 19:08:44 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmDropTransferStart 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmDropTransferStart\*O \- A Drag and Drop function that initiates a drop transfer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/DragDrop.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Widget XmDropTransferStart (\*Vwidget, arglist, argcount\*L)
.ta .5i 1.75i
	Widget		\*Vwidget\*L;
	ArgList		\*Varglist\*L;
	Cardinal	\*Vargcount\*L;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmDropTransferStart"
.iX "Drag and Drop functions" "XmDropTransferStart"
\*LXmDropTransferStart\*O initiates a drop transfer and uses the
specified argument list to initialize an \*LXmDropTransfer\*O object.
The DropTransfer object can be manipulated with \*LXtSetValues\*O
and \*LXtGetValues\*O until the last call to the \*LXmNtransferProc\*O
procedure is made.  After that point, the result of using the
widget pointer is undefined.  The DropTransfer object is freed
by the toolkit when a transfer is complete.
.VL .75i
.LI "\*Vrefwidget\*O"
Specifies the ID of the DragContext widget associated with the
transaction
.LI "\*Varglist\*O"
Specifies the argument list
.LI "\*Vargcount\*O"
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument
list (\*Varglist\*O)
.LE
.PP
For a complete definition of DropTransfer and its associated resources,
see \*LXmDropTransfer(3X)\*O.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the ID of the DropTransfer widget.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmDragContext(3X)\*O,
\*LXmDropTransfer(3X)\*O, and
\*LXmDropTransferAdd(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
