.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmFontListGetNextFont.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 19:11:07 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmFontListGetNextFont 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmFontListGetNextFont\*O \- A font list function that allows applications to access the fonts and character sets in a font list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Boolean XmFontListGetNextFont (\*Vcontext, charset, font\*L)
.ta .5i 1.75i
	XmFontContext	\*Vcontext\*L;
	XmStringCharSet	*\*Vcharset\*L;
	XFontStruct	**\*Vfont\*L;
.wH .fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmFontListGetNextFont"
.iX "font list functions" "XmFontListGetNextFont"
\*LXmFontListGetNextFont\*O  accesses the character set and font for the
next entry of the font list. The application first uses the
\*LXmFontListInitFontContext\*O routine to create a font list context.
The application then calls \*LXmFontListGetNextFont\*O repeatedly with
the same context.  Each succeeding call accesses the next element of
the font list.  When finished, the application calls
\*LXmFontListFreeFontContext\*O to free the allocated font list context.
.PP 
This routine allocates memory for the character set string that must be
freed by the application.
.PP
This function is obsolete and exists for compatibility with previous
releases.  It is replaced by \*LXmFontListNextEntry\*O.
If \*LXmFontListGetNextFont\*O is passed a context that contains
a font set entry, it will return the first font of the
font set.  The next call to the function will move to the next
entry in the font list.
.VL .75i 
.LI "\*Vcontext\*O"
Specifies the font list context
.LI "\*Vcharset\*O"
Specifies a pointer to a character set string; the routine returns the
character set for the current font list element
.LI "\*Vfont\*O"
Specifies a pointer to a pointer to a font structure; the routine
returns the font for the current font list element
.LE 
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns True if the returned values are valid; otherwise, returns False.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmFontList(3X)\*O and
\*LXmFontListNextEntry(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
