.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmGetXmDisplay.3X,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 19:14:03 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmGetXmDisplay 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmGetXmDisplay\*O \- A Display function that returns the \*LXmDisplay\*O object ID for a specified display
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Widget XmGetXmDisplay (\*Vdisplay\*L)
.ta .5i 1.75i
	Display		*\*Vdisplay\*L;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmGetXmDisplay"
.iX "Display functions" "XmGetXmDisplay"
\*LXmGetXmDisplay\*O returns the \*LXmDisplay\*O object ID associated
with a display.  The application can access
Display resources by using \*LXtGetValues\*O.
.VL .75i
.LI "\*Vdisplay\*O"
Specifies the display for which the \*LXmDisplay\*O object ID is to be returned
.LE
.PP
For a complete definition of Display and its associated resources,
see \*LXmDisplay(3X)\*O.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the \*LXmDisplay\*O object ID for the specified display.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmDisplay(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
