.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmGetColors.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/15 22:45:00 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmGetColors 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmGetColors\*O \- A function that generates foreground, select, and shadow colors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
.ta 1i
void XmGetColors (\*Vscreen, colormap, background, foreground, 
	top_shadow, bottom_shadow, select\*L)
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Screen	\*V* screen\*L;
	Colormap	\*Vcolormap\*L;
	Pixel	\*Vbackground\*L;
	Pixel	\*V* foreground\*L;
	Pixel	\*V* top_shadow\*L;
	Pixel	\*V* bottom_shadow\*L;
	Pixel	\*V* select\*L;
.wH .fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmGetColors"
.iX "Color functions" "XmGetColors"
\*LXmGetColors\*O takes a screen, a colormap, and a background pixel,
and it returns pixel values for foreground, select, and shadow colors.
.VL .75i 
.LI "\*Vscreen\*O"
Specifies the screen for which these colors should be allocated.
.LI "\*Vcolormap\*O"
Specifies the colormap from which these colors should be allocated.
.LI "\*Vbackground\*O"
Specifies the background on which the colors should be based.
.LI "\*Vforeground\*O"
Specifies a pointer to the returned foreground pixel value.
If this argument is NULL no value is allocated or returned for this color.
.LI "\*Vtop_shadow\*O"
Specifies a pointer to the returned top shadow pixel value.
If this argument is NULL no value is allocated or returned for this color.
.LI "\*Vbottom_shadow\*O"
Specifies a pointer to the returned bottom shadow pixel value.
If this argument is NULL no value is allocated or returned for this color.
.LI "\*Vselect\*O"
Specifies a pointer to the returned select pixel value.
If this argument is NULL no value is allocated or  returned for this color.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmChangeColor(3X)\*O,
\*LXmGetColorCalculation(3X)\*O, and
\*LXmSetColorCalculation(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
