.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmGetColorCalculation.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 19:12:10 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmGetColorCalculation 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmGetColorCalculation\*O \- A function to get the procedure used for default color calculation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
XmColorProc XmGetColorCalculation ()
.wH .fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmGetColorCalculation"
.iX "Color functions" "XmGetColorCalculation"
\*LXmGetColorCalculation\*O returns the procedure being used to calculate
default colors.
.PP 
For a description of \*LXmColorProc\*O, see \*LXmSetColorCalculation(3X)\*O.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the procedure used for default color calculation.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmChangeColor(3X)\*O,
\*LXmGetColors(3X)\*O, and
\*LXmSetColorCalculation(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
