.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmIsMotifWMRunning.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 19:14:35 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmIsMotifWMRunning 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmIsMotifWMRunning\*O \- A function that determines whether the window manager is running
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Boolean XmIsMotifWMRunning (\*Vshell\*L)
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\*Vshell\*L;
.wH .fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmIsMotifWMRunning"
\*LXmIsMotifWMRunning\*O lets a user know
whether the Motif Window Manager is
running on a screen that contains a specific widget hierarchy.
This
function first sees whether the \*L_MOTIF_WM_INFO\*O property is present on
the root window of the shell's screen. If it is, its window
field is used to query for the presence of the specified window as a
child of root.
.VL .75i 
.LI "\*Vshell\*O"
Specifies the shell whose screen will be tested for \*Lmwm\*O's presence.
.LE
.nL
.ne 5
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns True if MWM is running.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
