.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmList.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/15 22:45:26 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmList 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmList\*O \- The List widget class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/List.h>
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmList"
.iX "widget class" "List"
List allows a user to select one or more items
from a group of choices.  Items are selected from the list in a
variety of ways, using both the pointer and the keyboard.
List operates on an array of compound strings that are defined by the application.
Each compound string becomes an item in the List,
with the first compound string becoming
the item in position 1, the second becoming the item in position 2, and so on.
.PP 
The size of the List is set by specifying the number of items
that are visible.
If the number of visible items is not specified, the height
of the list controls the number of visible items.  Each item assumes
the height of the tallest element in the list.
To create a list that allows the user to scroll easily through a large
number of items, use the \*LXmCreateScrolledList\*O convenience
function.
.PP 
To select items,
move the pointer or cursor to the desired item
and press the \*LBSelect\*O mouse button or the key defined as \*LKSelect\*O.
There are several
styles of selection behavior, and they all highlight the selected item or
items by displaying them in inverse colors.  An appropriate callback is
invoked
to notify the application of the user's choice.  The application then takes
whatever action is required for the specified selection.
When a List is insensitive, all of the list items are displayed in
a stippled fill pattern.
.SS "Selection"
Each list has one of four selection models:
.ML
.LI
Single Select
.LI
Browse Select
.LI
Multiple Select
.LI
Extended Select
.LE 
.PP 
In Single Select and Browse Select, at most one item is selected at a
time.
In Single Select, pressing \*LBSelect\*O on an item toggles its
selection state and deselects any other selected item.
In Browse Select, pressing \*LBSelect\*O on an item selects it and
deselects any other selected item; dragging \*LBSelect\*O moves the
selection as the pointer is moved.  Releasing \*LBSelect\*O on an 
item moves the location cursor to that item.
.PP 
In Multiple Select, any number of items can be selected at a time.
Pressing \*LBSelect\*O on an item toggles its selection state but
does not deselect any other selected items.
.PP 
In Extended Select, any number of items can be selected at a time,
and the user can easily select ranges of items.
Pressing \*LBSelect\*O on an item selects it and deselects any other
selected item.
Dragging \*LBSelect\*O or pressing or dragging \*LBExtend\*O following a
\*LBSelect\*O action selects all items between the item under the
pointer and the item on which \*LBSelect\*O was pressed.
This action also deselects any other selected items outside that
range.
.PP 
Extended Select also allows the user to select and deselect
discontiguous ranges of items.
Pressing \*LBToggle\*O on an item toggles its selection state but
does not deselect any other selected items.
Dragging \*LBToggle\*O or pressing or dragging \*LBExtend\*O following a
\*LBToggle\*O action sets the selection state of all items between
the item under the pointer and the item on which \*LBToggle\*O was
pressed to the state of the item on which \*LBToggle\*O was pressed.
This action does not deselect any other selected items outside that
range.
.PP 
All selection operations available from the mouse are also available
from the keyboard.
List has two keyboard selection modes, Normal Mode and Add Mode.
In Normal Mode, navigation operations and \*LKSelect\*O select the
item at the location cursor and deselect any other selected
items.
In Add Mode, navigation operations have no effect on selection, and
\*LKSelect\*O toggles the selection state of the item at the location
cursor without deselecting any other selected items, except in Single
Select.
.PP 
Single and Multiple Select use Add Mode, and Browse Select uses Normal
Mode.
.PP 
Extended Select can use either mode; the user changes modes by pressing
\*LKAddMode\*O.
In Extended Select Normal Mode, pressing \*LKSelect\*O has the same
effect as pressing \*LBSelect\*O; \*LKExtend\*O and shifted navigation
have the same effect as pressing \*LBExtend\*O following a \*LBSelect\*O
action.
In Extended Select Add Mode, pressing \*LKSelect\*O has the same
effect as pressing \*LBToggle\*O; \*LKExtend\*O and shifted navigation
have the same effect as pressing \*LBExtend\*O following a \*LBToggle\*O
action.
.PP 
Normal Mode is indicated by a solid location cursor, and Add Mode is
indicated by a dashed location cursor.
.SS "Classes"
List inherits behavior and resources from \*LCore\*O and
\*LXmPrimitive\*O classes.
.PP 
The class pointer is \*LxmListWidgetClass\*O.
.PP 
The class name is \*LXmList\*O.
.SS "New Resources"
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \*LXmN\*O or
\*LXmC\*O prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \*LXm\*O prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (C),
set by using \*LXtSetValues\*O (S),
retrieved by using \*LXtGetValues\*O (G), or is not applicable (N/A).
.PP
.\" NROFF HACK START
.TS
center ;
CB ss
lB lB lB
lB lB lB
l l l.
XmList Resource Set
_
Name	Default	Access
\ \ \ \ \ \ Class	\ \ \ \ \ \ Type
_
_
XmNautomaticSelection	False	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCAutomaticSelection	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNbrowseSelectionCallback	NULL	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCallback	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCallbackList
_
XmNdefaultActionCallback	NULL	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCallback	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCallbackList
_
XmNdoubleClickInterval	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCDoubleClickInterval	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ int
_
XmNextendedSelectionCallback	NULL	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCallback	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCallbackList
_
XmNfontList	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCFontList	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XmFontList
_
XmNitemCount	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCItemCount	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ int
_
XmNitems	NULL	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCItems	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XmStringTable
_
XmNlistMarginHeight	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCListMarginHeight	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNlistMarginWidth	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCListMarginWidth	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNlistSizePolicy	XmVARIABLE	CG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCListSizePolicy	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ unsigned char
_
XmNlistSpacing	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCListSpacing	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNmultipleSelectionCallback	NULL	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCallback	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCallbackList
_
XmNscrollBarDisplayPolicy	XmAS_NEEDED	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCScrollBarDisplayPolicy	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ unsigned char
_
.wH .tH
XmNselectedItemCount	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCSelectedItemCount	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ int
_
XmNselectedItems	NULL	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCSelectedItems	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XmStringTable
_
XmNselectionPolicy	XmBROWSE_SELECT	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCSelectionPolicy	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ unsigned char
_
XmNsingleSelectionCallback	NULL	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCallback	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCallbackList
_
XmNstringDirection	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCStringDirection	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XmStringDirection
_
XmNtopItemPosition	1	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCTopItemPosition	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ int
_
XmNvisibleItemCount	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCVisibleItemCount	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ int
_
.TE
.\" NROFF HACK END
.VL  
.LI "\*LXmNautomaticSelection\*O"
Invokes \*LXmNbrowseSelectionCallback\*O or \*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O
when
BSelect is pressed and the items that are shown as selected change
if the value is True and the selection
mode is either \*LXmBROWSE_SELECT\*O or \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O respectively.
If False, no selection callbacks are invoked until
the user releases the mouse button.  See the Behavior section for
further details on the interaction of this resource with the selection modes.
.LI "\*LXmNbrowseSelectionCallback\*O"
Specifies a list of callbacks that is called
when an item is selected in the browse selection mode.  The reason is
\*LXmCR_BROWSE_SELECT\*O.
.LI "\*LXmNdefaultActionCallback\*O"
Specifies a list of callbacks that is called when an item is double
clicked or \*LKActivate\*O is pressed.
The reason is \*LXmCR_DEFAULT_ACTION\*O.
.nL
.ne 12
.LI "\*LXmNdoubleClickInterval\*O"
If a button click is followed by another button click within the time
span specified by this resource (in milliseconds), the button clicks
are considered a double-click action, rather than two single-click
actions.
The value must not be negative.
The default value is the display's multi-click time.
.LI "\*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O"
Specifies a list of callbacks that is called
when items are selected using the extended selection mode.
The reason is \*LXmCR_EXTENDED_SELECT\*O.
.LI "\*LXmNfontList\*O"
Specifies the font list associated with the list items.
This is used in conjunction with the \*LXmNvisibleItemCount\*O
resource to determine the height of the List widget.  If this
value is NULL at initialization, the font list is initialized by
looking up the parent hierarchy of the widget for an ancestor that
is a subclass of the XmBulletinBoard or VendorShell widget class.  If
such an ancestor is found, the font list is initialized to the
\*LXmNtextFontList\*O of the ancestor widget.  If no such ancestor
is found, the default is implementation dependent.  Refer to
\*LXmFontList(3X)\*O for more information on a font list structure.
.LI "\*LXmNitemCount\*O"
Specifies the total number of items.
The value must be the number of items in \*LXmNitems\*O and must not be
negative.
It is automatically updated by the list whenever an item is added to or
deleted from the list.
.LI "\*LXmNitems\*O"
Points to an array of compound strings that are to be displayed as the list
items.
Refer to \*LXmString(3X)\*O for more information on the creation and
structure of compound strings.
\*LXtGetValues\*O for this resource returns the list items themselves,
not a copy of the list items.
The application must not free the returned items.
.LI "\*LXmNlistMarginHeight\*O"
Specifies the height of the margin between the list border and the items.
.nL
.ne 11
.LI "\*LXmNlistMarginWidth\*O"
Specifies the width of the margin between the list border and the items.
.nL
.ne 10
.LI "\*LXmNlistSizePolicy\*O"
Controls the reaction of the List when an item grows horizontally beyond
the current size of the list work area.
If the value is \*LXmCONSTANT\*O, the list viewing area does not grow,
and a horizontal ScrollBar is added for a ScrolledList.
If this resource is set to \*LXmVARIABLE\*O, the List grows to match the
size of the longest item, and no horizontal ScrollBar appears.
.sp
When the value of this resource is \*LXmRESIZE_IF_POSSIBLE\*O, the List
attempts to grow or shrink to match the width of the widest item.
If it cannot grow to match the widest size, a horizontal ScrollBar is
added for a ScrolledList if the longest item is wider than the list
viewing area.
.nL
.ne 3
.sp
The size policy must be set at the time the List widget is created.
It cannot be changed at a later time through \*LXtSetValues\*O.
.LI "\*LXmNlistSpacing\*O"
Specifies the spacing between list items.
This spacing increases by the value of the \*LXmNhighlightThickness\*O
resource in Primitive.
.LI "\*LXmNmultipleSelectionCallback\*O"
Specifies a list of callbacks that is called
when an item is selected in
multiple selection mode. The reason is \*LXmCR_MULTIPLE_SELECT\*O.
.nL
.ne 8
.LI "\*LXmNscrollBarDisplayPolicy\*O"
Controls the display of vertical ScrollBars in a ScrolledList.
When the value of this resource is \*LXmAS_NEEDED\*O, a vertical
ScrollBar is displayed only when the number of items in the List exceeds
the number of Visible items.
When the value is \*LXmSTATIC\*O, a vertical ScrollBar is always
displayed.
.LI "\*LXmNselectedItemCount\*O"
Specifies the number of strings in the selected items list.
The value must be the number of items in \*LXmNselectedItems\*O and must
not be negative.
.nL
.ne 15
.LI "\*LXmNselectedItems\*O"
Points to an array of compound strings that represents the list items that
are currently selected, either by the user or by the application.
\*LXtGetValues\*O for this resource returns the list items themselves,
not a copy of the list items.
The application must not free the returned items.
.sp
Setting \*LXmNselectedItems\*O selects those list items that exactly
match items in the given \*LXmNselectedItems\*O list.  There may be
additional items in \*LXmNselectedItems\*O that do not match items in
the list.  These items remain until \*LXmNselectedItems\*O is updated.
If \*LXmNitems\*O is changed such that the list now contains items
matching previously unmatched items in \*LXmNselectedItems\*O, those
new items will also appear selected.
.sp
Any user interaction with the list that causes at least one item to be
selected or deselected and any call to \*LXmListDeselectAllItems\*O,
\*LXmListDeselectAllItems\*O, \*LXmListDeselectPos\*O,
\*LXmListSelectItem\*O, \*LXmListSelectPos\*O, or
\*LXmListUpdateSelectedList\*O cause \*LXmNselectedItems\*O to be
updated immediately to exactly reflect the visual state of the list.
Calls to any other \*LXmList\*O functions do not affect
\*LXmNselectedItems\*O.
.LI "\*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O"
Defines the interpretation of the selection action.  This can be one of the
following:
.wH .rS 
.ML
.LI
\*LXmSINGLE_SELECT\*O\(emallows only single selections
.LI
\*LXmMULTIPLE_SELECT\*O\(emallows multiple selections
.LI
\*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O\(emallows extended selections
.LI
\*LXmBROWSE_SELECT\*O"\(emallows "drag and browse" functionality
.LE 
.wH .rE
.LI "\*LXmNsingleSelectionCallback\*O"
Specifies a list of callbacks that is called
when an item is selected in
single selection mode. The reason is \*LXmCR_SINGLE_SELECT\*O.
.nL
.ne 9
.LI "\*LXmNstringDirection\*O"
Specifies the initial direction to draw the string.  The values are
\*LXmSTRING_DIRECTION_L_TO_R\*O and \*LXmSTRING_DIRECTION_R_TO_L\*O.
The value of this resource is determined at creation time.  If the widget's
parent is a manager, this value is inherited from the widget's parent,
otherwise it is set to \*LXmSTRING_DIRECTION_L_TO_R\*O.
.LI "\*LXmNtopItemPosition\*O"
Specifies the position of the item that is the first visible item in the
list.
Setting this resource is equivalent to calling the \*LXmListSetPos\*O
function.
The position of the first item in the list is 1; the position of the
second item is 2; and so on.
A position of 0 specifies the last item in the list.
The value must not be negative.
.LI "\*LXmNvisibleItemCount\*O"
Specifies the number of items that can
fit in the visible space of the list work area.  The List uses this
value to determine its height.
The value must be greater than 0.
.LE 
.SS "Inherited Resources"
List inherits behavior and resources from the following
superclasses.  For a complete description of each resource, refer to the
man page for that superclass.
.PP
.\" NROFF HACK START
.TS
center ;
CB ss
lB lB lB
lB lB lB
l l l.
XmPrimitive Resource Set
_
Name	Default	Access
\ \ \ \ \ \ Class	\ \ \ \ \ \ Type
_
_
XmNbottomShadowColor	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBottomShadowColor	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNbottomShadowPixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBottomShadowPixmap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixmap
_
XmNforeground	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCForeground	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNhelpCallback	NULL	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCallback	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCallbackList
_
XmNhighlightColor	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHighlightColor	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNhighlightOnEnter	False	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHighlightOnEnter	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNhighlightPixmap	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHighlightPixmap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixmap
_
XmNhighlightThickness	2	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHighlightThickness	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
.wH .tH
XmNnavigationType	XmTAB_GROUP	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCNavigationType	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XmNavigationType
_
XmNshadowThickness	2	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCShadowThickness	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNtopShadowColor	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCTopShadowColor	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNtopShadowPixmap	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCTopShadowPixmap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixmap
_
XmNtraversalOn	True	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCTraversalOn	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNunitType	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCUnitType	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ unsigned char
_
XmNuserData	NULL	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCUserData	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtPointer
_
.TE
.\" NROFF HACK END
.PP
.wH .in 0 
.\" NROFF HACK START
.TS
center ;
CB ss
lB lB lB
lB lB lB
l l l.
Core Resource Set
_
Name	Default	Access
\ \ \ \ \ \ Class	\ \ \ \ \ \ Type
_
_
XmNaccelerators	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCAccelerators	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtAccelerators
_
XmNancestorSensitive	dynamic	G
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCSensitive	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNbackground	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBackground	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNbackgroundPixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCPixmap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixmap
_
XmNborderColor	XtDefaultForeground	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBorderColor	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNborderPixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCPixmap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixmap
_
XmNborderWidth	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBorderWidth	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNcolormap	dynamic	CG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCColormap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Colormap
_
XmNdepth	dynamic	CG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCDepth	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ int
_
XmNdestroyCallback	NULL	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCallback	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCallbackList
_
XmNheight	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHeight	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNinitialResourcesPersistent	True	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCInitialResourcesPersistent	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNmappedWhenManaged	True	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCMappedWhenManaged	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNscreen	dynamic	CG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCScreen	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Screen *
_
.wH .tH
XmNsensitive	True	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCSensitive	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNtranslations	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCTranslations	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtTranslations
_
XmNwidth	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCWidth	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNx	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCPosition	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Position
_
XmNy	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCPosition	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Position
_
.TE
.\" NROFF HACK END
.wH .in  
.SS "Callback Information"
List defines a new callback structure.  The application must first look at the
reason field and use only the structure members that are valid for that
particular reason, because not all fields are relevant for
every possible reason.  The callback structure is defined as follows:
.sS
.iS
.ta .25i 1.5i
typedef struct
{
	int	\*Vreason\*L;
	XEvent	*\*Vevent\*L;
	XmString	\*Vitem\*L;
	int	\*Vitem_length\*L;
	int	\*Vitem_position\*L;
	XmString	*\*Vselected_items\*L;
	int	\*Vselected_item_count\*L;
	int	*\*Vselected_item_positions\*L;
	char	\*Vselection_type\*L;
} XmListCallbackStruct;
.iE
.sE
.nL
.ne 10
.VL 1.35i 
.LI "\*Vreason\*O"
Indicates why the callback was invoked.
.LI "\*Vevent\*O"
Points to the \*LXEvent\*O that triggered the callback.  It can be NULL.
.LI "\*Vitem\*O"
Is the last item selected at the time of the \*Vevent\*O that caused the
callback.
\*Vitem\*O points to a temporary storage space that is reused after the
callback is finished.
Therefore, if an application needs to save the item, it should copy the
item into its own data space.
.LI "\*Vitem_length\*O"
Is the length in bytes of \*Vitem\*O.
.LI "\*Vitem_position\*O"
Is the position of \*Vitem\*O in the List's \*LXmNitems\*O array.
.LI "\*Vselected_items\*O"
Is a list of items selected at the time of the \*Vevent\*O that caused
the callback.
\*Vselected_items\*O points to a temporary storage space that is reused
after the callback is finished.
Therefore, if an application needs to save the selected list, it should
copy the list into its own data space.
.LI "\*Vselected_item_count\*O"
Is the number of items in the \*Vselected_items\*O list.
This number must be non-negative.
.LI "\*Vselected_item_positions\*O"
Is an array of integers, one for each selected item, representing the
position of each selected item in the List's \*LXmNitems\*O array.
\*Vselected_item_positions\*O points to a temporary storage space that
is reused after the callback is finished.
Therefore, if an application needs to save this array, it should copy
the array into its own data space.
.LI "\*Vselection_type\*O"
Indicates that the most recent extended selection was the initial
selection (\*LXmINITIAL\*O), a modification of an existing selection
(\*LXmMODIFICATION\*O), or an additional noncontiguous selection
(\*LXmADDITION\*O).
.LE 
.PP
.ne 25
The following table describes the reasons for which the individual callback
structure fields are valid:
.PP
.TS
center , tab(;);
cb  cb
lb  li.
Reason;Valid Fields
=
.sp .2
XmCR_SINGLE_SELECT;reason, event, item, item_length, item_position
_
XmCR_DEFAULT_ACTION;T{
reason, event, item, item_length, item_position, selected_items, selected_item_count, selected_item_positions
T}
_
_
XmCR_BROWSE_SELECT;reason, event, item, item_length, item_position
_
XmCR_MULTIPLE_SELECT;T{
reason, event, item, item_length, item_position, selected_items, selected_item_count, selected_item_positions
T}
_
XmCR_EXTENDED_SELECT;T{
reason, event, item, item_length, item_position, selected_items, selected_item_count, selected_item_positions, selection_type
T}
.sp .2
.TE
.SS "Translations"
XmList includes translations from Primitive.
The XmList translations are listed below.
These translations may not directly correspond to a
translation table.
.iS
.ta 1.5i
BSelect Press:	ListBeginSelect()
BSelect Motion:	ListButtonMotion()
BSelect Release:	ListEndSelect()
.sp \n(PDu
BExtend Press:	ListBeginExtend()
BExtend Motion:	ListButtonMotion()
BExtend Release:	ListEndExtend()
.sp \n(PDu
BToggle Press:	ListBeginToggle()
BToggle Motion:	ListButtonMotion()
BToggle Release:	ListEndToggle()
BDrag Press:	ListProcessDrag()
.sp \n(PDu
.nL
.ne 7
KUp:	ListPrevItem()
MShift KUp:	ListExtendPrevItem()
.sp \n(PDu
KDown:	ListNextItem()
MShift KDown:	ListExtendNextItem()
.sp \n(PDu
KLeft:	ListLeftChar()
MCtrl KLeft:	ListLeftPage()
.sp \n(PDu
KRight:	ListRightChar()
MCtrl KRight:	ListRightPage()
.sp \n(PDu
KPageUp:	ListPrevPage()
KPageDown:	ListNextPage()
KPageLeft:	ListLeftPage()
KPageRight:	ListRightPage()
.sp \n(PDu
KBeginLine:	ListBeginLine()
KEndLine:	ListEndLine()
.sp \n(PDu
KBeginData:	ListBeginData()
MShift KBeginData:	ListBeginDataExtend()
.sp \n(PDu
KEndData:	ListEndData()
MShift KEndData:	ListEndDataExtend()
.sp \n(PDu
KAddMode:	ListAddMode()
.sp \n(PDu
KActivate:	ListKbdActivate()
.sp \n(PDu
KCopy Press:	ListCopyToClipboard()
KSelect Press:	ListKbdBeginSelect()
KSelect Release:	ListKbdEndSelect()
.sp \n(PDu
KExtend Press:	ListKbdBeginExtend()
KExtend Release:	ListKbdEndExtend()
.sp \n(PDu
MAny KCancel:	ListKbdCancel()
KSelectAll:	ListKbdSelectAll()
KDeselectAll:	ListKbdDeSelectAll()
.sp \n(PDu
KHelp:	PrimitiveHelp()
KNextField	PrimitiveNextTabGroup()
KPrevField	PrimitivePrevTabGroup()
.wH .fi
.iE
.SS "Action Routines"
The XmList action routines are described below.
The current selection is always shown with inverted colors.
.VL
.LI "\*LListAddMode()\*O:"
Toggles the state of Add Mode for keyboard selection.
.LI "\*LListBeginData()\*O:"
Moves the location cursor to the first item in the list.
In Normal Mode, this also deselects any current selection,
selects the first item in the list, and calls the appropriate selection
callbacks (\*LXmNbrowseSelectionCallback\*O when
\*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmBROWSE_SELECT\*O,
\*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O when \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set
to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O).
.LI "\*LListBeginDataExtend()\*O:"
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmMULTIPLE_SELECT\*O or
\*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O,
moves the location cursor to the first item in the list.
.sp
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O,
does the following:
If an extended selection has been made from the current anchor point,
restores the selection state of the items in that range to their state
before the extended selection was done.
Changes the selection state of the first item and all
items between it and the current anchor point to the state of the
item at the current anchor point.
Calls the \*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O callbacks.
.LI "\*LListBeginExtend()\*O:"
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O,
does the following:
If an extended selection has been made from the current anchor point,
restores the selection state of the items in that range to their state
before the extended selection was done.
Changes the selection state of the item under the pointer and all
items between it and the current anchor point to the state of the
.ne 4
item at the current anchor point.
If \*LXmNautomaticSelection\*O is set to True, calls the
\*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O callbacks.
.LI "\*LListBeginLine()\*O:"
Moves the horizontal scroll region to the beginning of the line.
.LI "\*LListBeginSelect()\*O:"
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmSINGLE_SELECT\*O,
deselects any current selection and toggles the selection state of the
item under the pointer.
.sp
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmBROWSE_SELECT\*O,
deselects any current selection and selects the item under the pointer.
If \*LXmNautomaticSelection\*O is set to True, calls the
\*LXmNbrowseSelectionCallback\*O callbacks.
.sp
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmMULTIPLE_SELECT\*O,
toggles the selection state of the item under the pointer.
Any previous selections remain.
.sp
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O,
deselects any current selection, selects the item under the pointer, and
sets the current anchor at that item.
If \*LXmNautomaticSelection\*O is set to True, calls the
\*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O callbacks.
.LI "\*LListBeginToggle()\*O:"
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O,
does the following:
Moves the current anchor to the item under the pointer
without changing the current selection.
If the item is unselected, it is selected; if the item is selected, it
is unselected.
If \*LXmNautomaticSelection\*O is set to True, calls the
\*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O callbacks.
.LI "\*LListButtonMotion()\*O:"
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmBROWSE_SELECT\*O,
deselects any current selection and selects the item under \pthe
.nL
.ne 2
pointer.
If \*LXmNautomaticSelection\*O is set to True and the pointer has
entered a new list item, calls the \*LXmNbrowseSelectionCallback\*O
callbacks.
.sp
.ne 4
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O,
does the following:
If an extended selection is being made and an extended selection has
previously been made from the current anchor point,
restores the selection state of the items in that range to their state
before the previous extended selection was done.
Changes the selection state of the item under the pointer and all
items between it and the current anchor point to the state of the
item at the current anchor point.
If \*LXmNautomaticSelection\*O is set to True and the pointer has
entered a new list item, calls the \*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O
callbacks.
.sp
If the pointer leaves a scrolled list, this action scrolls the list in
the direction of the pointer motion.
.LI "\*LListCopyToClipboard()\*O"
Copies the content of the selected items to the clipboard as a single
compound string with each
item separated by a newline.
.LI "\*LListEndData()\*O:"
Moves the location cursor to the last item in the list.
In Normal Mode, this also deselects any current selection,
selects the last item in the list, and calls the appropriate selection
callbacks (\*LXmNbrowseSelectionCallback\*O when
\*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmBROWSE_SELECT\*O,
\*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O when \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set
to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O).
.LI "\*LListEndDataExtend()\*O:"
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmMULTIPLE_SELECT\*O or
\*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O,
moves the location cursor to the last item in the list.
.sp
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O,
does the following:
If an extended selection has been made from the current anchor point,
restores the selection state of the items in that range to their state
before the extended selection was done.
Changes the selection state of the last item and all
items between it and the current anchor point to the state of the
item at the current anchor point.
Calls the \*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O callbacks.
.nL
.ne 5
.LI "\*LListEndExtend()\*O:"
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O,
moves the location cursor to the last item selected or deselected and,
if \*LXmNautomaticSelection\*O is set to False, calls the
\*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O callbacks.
.LI "\*LListEndLine()\*O:"
Moves the horizontal scroll region to the end of the line.
.LI "\*LListEndSelect()\*O:"
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmSINGLE_SELECT\*O or
\*LXmMULTIPLE_SELECT\*O,
moves the location cursor to the last item selected or deselected and
calls the appropriate selection callbacks
(\*LXmNsingleSelectionCallback\*O when \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set
to \*LXmSINGLE_SELECT\*O, \*LXmNmultipleSelectionCallback\*O when
\*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmMULTIPLE_SELECT\*O).
.sp
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmBROWSE_SELECT\*O or
\*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O, moves the location cursor to the last item
selected or deselected and, if \*LXmNautomaticSelection\*O is set to
False, calls the appropriate selection callbacks
(\*LXmNbrowseSelectionCallback\*O when \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set
to \*LXmBROWSE_SELECT\*O, \*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O when
\*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O).
.LI "\*LListEndToggle()\*O:"
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O, moves
the location cursor to the last item selected or deselected and, if
\*LXmNautomaticSelection\*O is set to False, calls the
\*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O callbacks.
.LI "\*LListExtendNextItem()\*O:"
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O,
does the following:
If an extended selection has been made from the current anchor point,
restores the selection state of the items in that range to their state
before the extended selection was done.
Moves the location cursor to the next item and changes the selection
state of the item and all
.ne 4
items between it and the current anchor point
to the state of the item at the current anchor point.
Calls the \*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O callbacks.
.LI "\*LListExtendPrevItem()\*O:"
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O,
does the following:
If an extended selection has been made from the current anchor point,
restores the selection state of the items in that range to their state
before the extended selection was done.
Moves the location cursor to the previous item and changes the selection
state of the item and all items between it and the current anchor point
to the state of the item at the current anchor point.
Calls the \*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O callbacks.
.LI "\*LListScrollCursorVertically(\*Vpercentage\*L)\*O:"
Scrolls the line containing the insertion cursor vertically
to an intermediate position in the visible window based on an
input percentage.  A value of 0 indicates the top of the window;
a value of 100, the bottom of the window.   If this action is called
with no argument, the line containing the insertion cursor is scrolled
vertically to a new position designated by the \*Vy\*O event passed
to the routine.
.LI "\*LListKbdActivate()\*O:"
Calls the callbacks for \*LXmNdefaultActionCallback\*O.
If the List's parent is a manager, this action passes the event to the
parent.
.LI "\*LListKbdBeginExtend()\*O:"
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O,
does the following:
If an extended selection has been made from the current anchor point,
restores the selection state of the items in that range to their state
before the extended selection was done.
Changes the selection state of the item at the location cursor and all
items between it and the current anchor point to the state of the
item at the current anchor point.
If \*LXmNautomaticSelection\*O is set to True, calls the
\*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O callbacks.
.LI "\*LListKbdBeginSelect()\*O:"
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmSINGLE_SELECT\*O,
deselects any current selection and toggles the state of the item at the
location cursor.
.sp
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmBROWSE_SELECT\*O,
deselects any current selection and selects the item at the location
cursor.
If \*LXmNautomaticSelection\*O is set to True, calls the
\*LXmNbrowseSelectionCallback\*O callbacks.
.sp
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmMULTIPLE_SELECT\*O,
toggles the selection state of the item at the location cursor.
Any previous selections remain.
.sp
.ne 9
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O,
moves the current anchor to the item at the location cursor.
In Normal Mode, deselects any current selection and selects the item at
the location cursor.
In Add Mode, toggles the selection state of the item at the location
cursor and leaves the current selection unchanged.
If \*LXmNautomaticSelection\*O is set to True, calls the
\*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O callbacks.
.LI "\*LListKbdCancel()\*O:"
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O
and an extended selection is being made from the current anchor point,
cancels the new selection and restores the selection state of the items
in that range to their state before the extended selection was done.
If \*LXmNautomaticSelection\*O is set to True, calls the
\*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O callbacks, otherwise, and if the
parent is a manager, passes the event to the parent.
.LI "\*LListKbdDeSelectAll()\*O:"
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmSINGLE_SELECT\*O,
\*LXmMULTIPLE_SELECT\*O, or \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O in Add Mode,
deselects all items in the list.
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O in
Normal Mode, deselects all items in the list (except the item at the
location cursor if the shell's \*LXmNkeyboardFocusPolicy\*O is
\*LXmEXPLICIT\*O).
Calls the appropriate selection callbacks
(\*LXmNsingleSelectionCallback\*O when \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set
to \*LXmSINGLE_SELECT\*O, \*LXmNmultipleSelectionCallback\*O when
\*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmMULTIPLE_SELECT\*O,
\*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O when \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set
to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O).
.LI "\*LListKbdEndExtend()\*O:"
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O
and if \*LXmNautomaticSelection\*O is set to False, calls the
\*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O callbacks.
.nL
.ne 9
.LI "\*LListKbdEndSelect()\*O:"
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmSINGLE_SELECT\*O or
\*LXmMULTIPLE_SELECT\*O or if \*LXmNautomaticSelection\*O is set to False,
calls the appropriate selection callbacks
(\*LXmNsingleSelectionCallback\*O when \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set
to \*LXmSINGLE_SELECT\*O, \*LXmNbrowseSelectionCallback\*O when
\*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmBROWSE_SELECT\*O,
\*LXmNmultipleSelectionCallback\*O when \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set
to \*LXmMULTIPLE_SELECT\*O, \*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O when
\*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O).
.LI "\*LListKbdSelectAll()\*O:"
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmSINGLE_SELECT\*O or
\*LXmBROWSE_SELECT\*O, selects the item at the location cursor.
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O or
\*LXmMULTIPLE_SELECT\*O,
selects all items in the list.
Calls the appropriate selection callbacks
(\*LXmNsingleSelectionCallback\*O when \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set
to \*LXmSINGLE_SELECT\*O, \*LXmNbrowseSelectionCallback\*O when
\*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmBROWSE_SELECT\*O,
\*LXmNmultipleSelectionCallback\*O when \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set
to \*LXmMULTIPLE_SELECT\*O, \*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O when
\*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O).
.LI "\*LListLeftChar()\*O:"
Scrolls the list one character to the left.
.LI "\*LListLeftPage()\*O:"
Scrolls the list one page to the left.
.LI "\*LListNextItem()\*O:"
Moves the location cursor to the next item in the list.
.sp
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmBROWSE_SELECT\*O,
this action also selects the next item, deselects any current
selection, and calls the \*LXmNbrowseSelectionCallback\*O callbacks.
.sp
.ne 8
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O,
this action in Normal Mode also selects the next item, deselects any
current selection, moves the current anchor to the next item, and calls
the \*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O callbacks.
In Add Mode this action does not affect the selection or the anchor.
.LI "\*LListNextPage()\*O:"
Scrolls the list to the next page, moving the location cursor to a new
item.
.sp
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmBROWSE_SELECT\*O,
this action also selects the new item, deselects any current
selection, and calls the \*LXmNbrowseSelectionCallback\*O callbacks.
.sp
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O,
this action in Normal Mode also selects the new item, deselects any
current selection, moves the current anchor to the new item, and calls
the \*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O callbacks.
In Add Mode this action does not affect the selection or the anchor.
.LI "\*LListPrevItem()\*O:"
Moves the location cursor to the previous item in the list.
.sp
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmBROWSE_SELECT\*O,
this action also selects the previous item, deselects any current
selection, and calls the \*LXmNbrowseSelectionCallback\*O callbacks.
.sp
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O,
this action in Normal Mode also selects the previous item, deselects any
current selection, moves the current anchor to the previous item, and
calls the \*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O callbacks.
In Add Mode this action does not affect the selection or the anchor.
.nL
.ne 8
.LI "\*LListPrevPage()\*O:"
Scrolls the list to the previous page, moving the location cursor to a
new item.
.sp
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmBROWSE_SELECT\*O,
this action also selects the new item, deselects any current
selection, and calls the \*LXmNbrowseSelectionCallback\*O callbacks.
.sp
If the \*LXmNselectionPolicy\*O is set to \*LXmEXTENDED_SELECT\*O,
this action in Normal Mode also selects the new item, deselects any
current selection, moves the current anchor to the new item, and calls
the \*LXmNextendedSelectionCallback\*O callbacks.
In Add Mode this action does not affect the selection or the anchor.
.LI "\*LListProcessDrag()\*O:"
Drags the content of a one or more selected list items.  Each item
is separated by a newline.  This action creates a DragContext object
whose \*LXmNexportTargets\*O resource is set to "COMPOUND_TEXT" and
the \*LXmNclientData\*O resource is set to the index of the item in
the list.  If \*LBDrag\*O is pressed on an unselected item, drags
only that item, excluding any other selected items.
.LI "\*LListRightChar()\*O:"
Scrolls the list one character to the right.
.LI "\*LListRightPage()\*O:"
Scrolls the list one page to the right.
.LI "\*LPrimitiveHelp()\*O:"
Calls the callbacks for \*LXmNhelpCallback\*O if any exist.  If there
are no help callbacks for this widget, this action calls the help callbacks
for the nearest ancestor that has them.
.LI "\*LPrimitiveNextTabGroup()\*O:"
Moves the focus to the first item contained within the next tab group.  If
the current tab group is the last entry in the tab group list, it
wraps to the beginning of the tab group list.
.LI "\*LPrimitivePrevTabGroup()\*O:"
Moves the focus to the first item contained within the previous tab group.
If the beginning of the tab group list is reached, it wraps to the end
of the tab group list.
.LE
.ne 10
.SS "Additional Behavior"
The List widget has the additional behavior described below:
.VL
.LI "\*L<Double\ Click>\*O"
If a button click is followed by another button click within the time
span specified by the display's multi-click time, the List interprets
that as a double click and calls the callbacks for
\*LXmNdefaultActionCallback\*O.
The item's colors invert to indicate that it is selected.
The \*LXmNdoubleClickInterval\*O resource can be used to specify a
time span that overrides the display's multi-click time.
.LI "\*L<FocusIn>\*O:"
If the focus policy is Explicit, sets the focus and draw
the location cursor.
.LI "\*L<FocusOut>\*O:"
If the focus policy is Explicit, removes the focus and erase
the location cursor.
.LE
.SS "Virtual Bindings"
The bindings for virtual keys are vendor specific.
For information about bindings for virtual buttons and keys, see \*LVirtualBindings(3X)\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LCore(3X)\*O, \*LXmCreateList(3X)\*O,
\*LXmCreateScrolledList(3X)\*O,
\*LXmFontListAppendEntry(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListAddItem(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListAddItems(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListAddItemUnselected(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListAddItemsUnselected(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListDeleteAllItems(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListDeleteItem(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListDeleteItems(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListDeleteItemsPos(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListDeletePos(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListDeletePositions(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListDeselectAllItems(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListDeselectItem(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListDeselectPos(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListGetKbdItemPos
\*LXmListGetMatchPos(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListGetSelectedPos(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListItemExists(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListItemPos(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListPosToBounds(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListReplaceItems(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListReplaceItemsPos(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListReplaceItemsPosUnselected(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListReplaceItemsUnselected(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListSelectItem(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListSelectPos(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListSetAddMode(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListSetBottomItem(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListSetBottomPos(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListSetHorizPos(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListSetItem(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListSetKbdItemPos(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListSetPos(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListUpdateSelectedList(3X)\*O,
\*LXmListYToPos(3X)\*O,
\*LXmPrimitive(3X)\*O,
\*LXmStringCreate(3X)\*O
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
