.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmMainWindow.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/14 21:20:52 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmMainWindow 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmMainWindow\*O \- The MainWindow widget class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/MainW.h>
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmMainWindow"
.iX "widget class" "MainWindow"
MainWindow provides a standard layout for the primary window of an
application.  This layout includes a MenuBar, a CommandWindow, a work
region, a MessageWindow, and ScrollBars.  Any or all of these areas are optional.  The
work region and ScrollBars in the MainWindow behave identically to the work
region and ScrollBars in the ScrolledWindow widget.  The user can think of
the MainWindow as an extended ScrolledWindow with an optional MenuBar and
optional CommandWindow and MessageWindow.
.PP 
In a fully-loaded MainWindow, the MenuBar spans the top of the window
horizontally.  The CommandWindow spans the MainWindow horizontally just below
the MenuBar, and the work region lies below the CommandWindow.
The MessageWindow is is below the work region.
Any space remaining below the
MessageWindow is managed in a manner identical to ScrolledWindow.
The behavior of ScrolledWindow can be controlled by the ScrolledWindow
resources.
To create a MainWindow, first create the
work region elements, a MenuBar, a CommandWindow, a MessageWindow, a
horizontal
ScrollBar, and a vertical ScrollBar widget, and then
call \*LXmMainWindowSetAreas\*O with those widget IDs.
.PP 
MainWindow
can also create three Separator widgets that provide a visual separation of
MainWindow's four components.
The user can specify resources in a resource file for the automatically
created gadgets that contain the MainWindow separators.  The name of the
first separator gadget is "Separator1"; the second is "Separator2"; and the
third is "Separator3".
.SS "Classes"
MainWindow inherits behavior and resources from \*LCore\*O,
\*LComposite\*O, \*LConstraint\*O, \*LXmManager\*O,
and \*LScrolledWindow\*O classes.
.PP 
The class pointer is \*LxmMainWindowWidgetClass\*O.
.PP 
The class name is \*LXmMainWindow\*O.
.SS "New Resources"
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \*LXmN\*O or
\*LXmC\*O prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \*LXm\*O prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (C),
set by using \*LXtSetValues\*O (S),
retrieved by using \*LXtGetValues\*O (G), or is not applicable (N/A).
.nL
.ne 2i
.PP
.wH .in -.5i 
.\" NROFF HACK START
.TS
center ;
CB ss
lB lB lB
lB lB lB
l l l.
XmMainWindow Resource Set
_
Name	Default	Access
\ \ \ \ \ \ Class	\ \ \ \ \ \ Type
_
_
XmNcommandWindow	NULL	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCommandWindow	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Widget
_
XmNcommandWindowLocation	ABOVE (See Desc.)	CG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCommandWindowLocation	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ unsigned char
_
XmNmainWindowMarginHeight	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCMainWindowMarginHeight	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNmainWindowMarginWidth	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCMainWindowMarginWidth	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNmenuBar	NULL	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCMenuBar	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Widget
_
XmNmessageWindow	NULL	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCMessageWindow	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Widget
_
XmNshowSeparator	False	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCShowSeparator	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
.TE
.\" NROFF HACK END
.wH .in  
.VL  
.LI "\*LXmNcommandWindow\*O"
Specifies the widget to be laid out as the CommandWindow.  This widget
must have been previously created and managed as a child of MainWindow.
.LI "\*LXmNcommandWindowLocation\*O"
Controls the position of the command window.  \*LXmCOMMAND_ABOVE_WORKSPACE\*O
locates the command window between the menu bar and the work window.
\*LXmCOMMAND_BELOW_WORKSPACE\*O locates the command window between the
work window and the message window.
.nL
.ne 10
.LI "\*LXmNmainWindowMarginHeight\*O"
Specifies the margin height on the top and bottom of MainWindow.  This
resource overrides any setting of the
ScrolledWindow resource
\*LXmNscrolledWindowMarginHeight\*O.
.LI "\*LXmNmainWindowMarginWidth\*O"
Specifies the margin width on the right and left sides of MainWindow.  This
resource overrides any setting of the ScrolledWindow resource
\*LXmNscrolledWindowMarginWidth\*O.
.LI "\*LXmNmenuBar\*O"
Specifies the widget to be laid out as the MenuBar.  This widget must
have been previously created and managed as a child of MainWindow.
.LI "\*LXmNmessageWindow\*O"
Specifies the widget to be laid out as the MessageWindow.  This widget
must have been previously created and managed as a child of MainWindow.
The MessageWindow is positioned at the bottom of the MainWindow.
If this value is NULL, no message window is included in the MainWindow.
.LI "\*LXmNshowSeparator\*O"
Displays separators between the components of the MainWindow when set
to True.  If set to False, no separators are displayed.
.LE 
.SS "Inherited Resources"
MainWindow inherits behavior and resources from the following
superclasses.  For a complete description of each resource, refer to the
man page for that superclass.
.PP
.\" NROFF HACK START
.TS
center ;
CB ss
lB lB lB
lB lB lB
l l l.
XmScrolledWindow Resource Set
_
Name	Default	Access
\ \ \ \ \ \ Class	\ \ \ \ \ \ Type
_
_
XmNclipWindow	dynamic	G
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCClipWindow	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Widget
_
XmNhorizontalScrollBar	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHorizontalScrollBar	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Widget
_
XmNscrollBarDisplayPolicy	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCScrollBarDisplayPolicy	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ unsigned char
_
XmNscrollBarPlacement	XmBOTTOM_RIGHT	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCScrollBarPlacement	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ unsigned char
_
XmNscrolledWindowMarginHeight	0	N/A
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCScrolledWindowMarginHeight	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNscrolledWindowMarginWidth	0	N/A
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCScrolledWindowMarginWidth	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNscrollingPolicy	XmAPPLICATION_DEFINED	CG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCScrollingPolicy	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ unsigned char
_
XmNspacing	4	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCSpacing	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNtraverseObscuredCallback	NULL	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCallback	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCallbackList
_
XmNverticalScrollBar	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCVerticalScrollBar	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Widget
_
XmNvisualPolicy	dynamic	G
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCVisualPolicy	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ unsigned char
_
XmNworkWindow	NULL    	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCWorkWindow	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Widget
_
.TE
.\" NROFF HACK END
.PP
.\" NROFF HACK START
.TS
center ;
CB ss
lB lB lB
lB lB lB
l l l.
XmManager Resource Set
_
Name	Default	Access
\ \ \ \ \ \ Class	\ \ \ \ \ \ Type
_
_
XmNbottomShadowColor	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBottomShadowColor	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNbottomShadowPixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBottomShadowPixmap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixmap
_
XmNforeground	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCForeground	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNhelpCallback	NULL	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCallback	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCallbackList
_
XmNhighlightColor	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHighlightColor	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNhighlightPixmap	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHighlightPixmap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixmap
_
XmNinitialFocus	NULL	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCInitialFocus	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Widget
_
XmNnavigationType	XmTAB_GROUP	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCNavigationType	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XmNavigationType
_
XmNshadowThickness	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCShadowThickness	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNstringDirection	dynamic	CG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCStringDirection	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XmStringDirection
_
XmNtopShadowColor	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCTopShadowColor	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNtopShadowPixmap	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCTopShadowPixmap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixmap
_
XmNtraversalOn	True	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCTraversalOn	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNunitType	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCUnitType	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ unsigned char
_
XmNuserData	NULL	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCUserData	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtPointer
_
.TE
.\" NROFF HACK END
.PP
.\" NROFF HACK START
.TS
center ;
CB ss
lB lB lB
lB lB lB
l l l.
Composite Resource Set
_
Name	Default	Access
\ \ \ \ \ \ Class	\ \ \ \ \ \ Type
_
_
XmNchildren	NULL	G
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCReadOnly	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ WidgetList
_
XmNinsertPosition	NULL	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCInsertPosition	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtOrderProc
_
XmNnumChildren	0	G
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCReadOnly	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Cardinal
_
.TE
.\" NROFF HACK END
.PP
.wH .in 0 
.\" NROFF HACK START
.TS
center ;
CB ss
lB lB lB
lB lB lB
l l l.
Core Resource Set
_
Name	Default	Access
\ \ \ \ \ \ Class	\ \ \ \ \ \ Type
_
_
XmNaccelerators	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCAccelerators	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtAccelerators
_
XmNancestorSensitive	dynamic	G
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCSensitive	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNbackground	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBackground	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNbackgroundPixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCPixmap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixmap
_
XmNborderColor	XtDefaultForeground	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBorderColor	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNborderPixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCPixmap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixmap
_
XmNborderWidth	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBorderWidth	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNcolormap	dynamic	CG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCColormap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Colormap
_
XmNdepth	dynamic	CG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCDepth	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ int
_
XmNdestroyCallback	NULL	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCallback	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCallbackList
_
XmNheight	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHeight	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNinitialResourcesPersistent	True	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCInitialResourcesPersistent	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNmappedWhenManaged	True	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCMappedWhenManaged	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNscreen	dynamic	CG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCScreen	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Screen *
_
.wH .tH
XmNsensitive	True	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCSensitive	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNtranslations	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCTranslations	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtTranslations
_
XmNwidth	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCWidth	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNx	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCPosition	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Position
_
XmNy	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCPosition	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Position
_
.TE
.\" NROFF HACK END
.wH .in  
.SS "Translations"
MainWindow inherits translations from ScrolledWindow.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LComposite(3X)\*O, \*LConstraint(3X)\*O, \*LCore(3X)\*O,
\*LXmCreateMainWindow(3X)\*O,
\*LXmMainWindowSep1(3X)\*O, \*LXmMainWindowSep2(3X)\*O,
\*LXmMainWindowSep3(3X)\*O,
\*LXmMainWindowSetAreas(3X)\*O,
\*LXmManager(3X)\*O, and \*LXmScrolledWindow(3X)\*O
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
