.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmMenuPosition.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 19:22:22 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmMenuPosition 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmMenuPosition\*O \- A RowColumn function that positions a Popup MenuPane
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/RowColumn.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmMenuPosition (\*Vmenu, event\*L)
.ta .5i 2i
	Widget	\*Vmenu\*L;
	XButtonPressedEvent	\*V* event\*L;
.wH .fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmMenuPosition"
.iX "RowColumn functions" "XmMenuPosition"
\*LXmMenuPosition\*O positions a Popup MenuPane using the information in the
specified event.  Unless an application is positioning the MenuPane
itself, it must first invoke this function before managing the PopupMenu.
The \*Vx_root\*O and \*Vy_root\*O values in the specified event are used to
determine the menu position.
.VL .75i 
.LI "\*Vmenu\*O"
Specifies the PopupMenu to be positioned
.LI "\*Vevent\*O"
Specifies the event passed to the action procedure which manages the
PopupMenu
.LE 
.PP 
.ne 3
For a complete definition of RowColumn and its associated resources, see
\*LXmRowColumn(3X)\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmRowColumn(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
