.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmOptionLabelGadget.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/14 20:16:44 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmOptionLabelGadget 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmOptionLabelGadget\*O \- A RowColumn function that obtains the widget ID for the LabelGadget in an OptionMenu
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/RowColumn.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Widget XmOptionLabelGadget (\*Voption_menu\*L)
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\*Voption_menu\*L;
.wH .fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmOptionLabelGadget"
.iX "RowColumn functions" "XmOptionLabelGadget"
\*LXmOptionLabelGadget\*O
provides the application with the means for obtaining the
widget ID for the internally created LabelGadget.
Once the application has obtained the widget ID, it can
adjust the visuals for the LabelGadget, if desired.
.PP 
When an application creates an instance of the OptionMenu widget, the
widget creates two internal gadgets.  One is a LabelGadget that is used
to display RowColumn's \*LXmNlabelString\*O resource.  The other
is a CascadeButtonGadget that displays the current selection and provides
the means for posting the OptionMenu's submenu.
.PP
The user can specify resources in a resource file for the automatically
created widgets and gadgets of an OptionMenu.  The following list
identifies the names of these widgets (or gadgets) and the associated
OptionMenu areas:
.ML
.LI
Option Menu Label Gadget\(em"OptionLabel"
.LI
Option Menu Cascade Button\(em"OptionButton"
.LE
.VL 1i 
.LI "\*Voption_menu\*O"
Specifies the OptionMenu widget ID
.LE 
.PP 
For a complete definition of RowColumn and its associated resources, see
\*LXmRowColumn(3X)\*O.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the widget ID for the internal label.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmCreateOptionMenu(3X)\*O, \*LXmLabelGadget(3X)\*O,
\*LXmOptionButtonGadget(3X)\*O, and \*LXmRowColumn(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
