.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmSetFontUnits.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 19:31:54 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmSetFontUnits 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmSetFontUnits\*O \- A function that sets the font unit value for a display
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmSetFontUnits (\*Vdisplay, h_value, v_value\*L)
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Display	\*V* display\*L;
	int	\*Vh_value\*L;
	int	\*Vv_value\*L;
.wH .fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmSetFontUnits"
\*LXmSetFontUnits\*O provides an external function to initialize font unit
values.  Applications may want to specify resolution-independent data based
on a global font size.  This function must be called before any widgets with
resolution-independent data are created.  See the \*LXmNunitType\*O
resource description in the manual pages for
\*LXmGadget\*O, \*LXmManager\*O, and \*LXmPrimitive\*O for more information
on resolution independence.
.PP
This function sets the font units for all screens on the display.
\*LXmSetFontUnits\*O is obsolete and exists for compatibility with
previous releases.
Instead of using this function, provide initial values or call
\*LXtSetValues\*O for the XmScreen resources \*LXmNhorizontalFontUnit\*O
and \*LXmNverticalFontUnit\*O.
.nL
.ne 12
.VL 1.25i 
.LI "\*Vdisplay\*O"
Defines the display for which this font unit value is to be applied.
.LI "\*Vh_value\*O"
Specifies the value to be used for horizontal
units in the conversion calculations.
.LI "\*Vh_value\*O"
Specifies the value to be used for vertical
units in the conversion calculations.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmConvertUnits(3X)\*O,
\*LXmSetFontUnit(3X)\*O,
\*LXmGadget(3X)\*O,
\*LXmManager(3X)\*O,
\*LXmPrimitive(3X)\*O, and
\*LXmScreen(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
