.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmSeparatorGadget.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/03 21:57:17 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmSeparatorGadget 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmSeparatorGadget\*O \- The SeparatorGadget widget class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/SeparatoG.h>
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmSeparatorGadget"
.iX "widget class" "SeparatorGadget"
SeparatorGadget separates items in a display.
Several
line drawing styles are provided, as well as horizontal or vertical
orientation.
.PP 
Lines drawn within the SeparatorGadget are automatically
centered within the height of the gadget for a horizontal orientation
and centered within the width of the gadget for a vertical orientation.
An \*LXtSetValues\*O with a new \*LXmNseparatorType\*O resizes the
widget to its minimal height (for horizontal orientation) or its
minimal width (for
vertical orientation) unless height or width is explicitly set in the
\*LXtSetValues\*O call.
.PP 
SeparatorGadget does not draw shadows around the separator.
The Gadget resource \*LXmNshadowThickness\*O is used for the
SeparatorGadget's thickness when \*LXmNseparatorType\*O is
\*LXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN\*O, \*LXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN_DASH\*O,
\*LXmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT\*O, or \*LXmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT_DASH\*O.
.PP 
SeparatorGadget does not highlight and allows no traversing.  The Gadget
resource \*LXmNtraversalOn\*O is forced to False.
.SS "Classes"
SeparatorGadget inherits behavior and
resources from \*LObject\*O, \*LRectObj\*O, and \*LXmGadget\*O Classes.
.PP 
The class pointer is \*LxmSeparatorGadgetClass\*O.
.PP 
The class name is \*LXmSeparatorGadget\*O.
.SS "New Resources"
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \*LXmN\*O or
\*LXmC\*O prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \*LXm\*O prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (C),
set by using \*LXtSetValues\*O (S),
retrieved by using \*LXtGetValues\*O (G), or is not applicable (N/A).
.PP
.\" NROFF HACK START
.TS
center ;
CB ss
lB lB lB
lB lB lB
l l l.
XmSeparatorGadget Resource Set
_
Name	Default	Access
\ \ \ \ \ \ Class	\ \ \ \ \ \ Type
_
_
XmNmargin	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCMargin	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNorientation	XmHORIZONTAL	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCOrientation	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ unsigned char
_
XmNseparatorType	XmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCSeparatorType	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ unsigned char
_
.TE
.\" NROFF HACK END
.VL  
.LI "\*LXmNmargin\*O"
For horizontal orientation, specifies the space on the left and right sides between the border of
SeparatorGadget and the line drawn.
For vertical
.ne 8
orientation, specifies the space
on the top and bottom between the border
of SeparatorGadget and the line drawn.
.LI "\*LXmNorientation\*O"
Specifies whether SeparatorGadget is displayed vertically or horizontally.
This resource can have values of \*LXmVERTICAL\*O and \*LXmHORIZONTAL\*O.
.LI "\*LXmNseparatorType\*O"
Specifies the type of line drawing to be done in the Separator widget.
.wH .rS 
.ML
.LI
\*LXmSINGLE_LINE\*O\(emsingle line.
.LI
\*LXmDOUBLE_LINE\*O\(emdouble line.
.LI
\*LXmSINGLE_DASHED_LINE\*O\(emsingle-dashed line.
.LI
\*LXmDOUBLE_DASHED_LINE\*O\(emdouble-dashed line.
.LI
\*LXmNO_LINE\*O\(emno line.
.LI
\*LXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN\*O\(ema line whose shadows give the
effect of a line etched into the window.  The thickness of the
line is equal to the value of \*LXmNshadowThickness\*O.  For
horizontal orientation, the top shadow is drawn in \*LXmNtopShadowColor\*O
and the bottom shadow is drawn in \*LXmNbottomShadowColor\*O.  For
vertical orientation, the left edge is drawn in \*LXmNtopShadowColor\*O
and the right edge is drawn in \*LXmNbottomShadowColor\*O.
.LI
\*LXmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT\*O\(ema line whose shadows give the effect
of an etched line coming out of the window.  The thickness of the
line is equal to the value of \*LXmNshadowThickness\*O.  For horizontal
orientation, the top shadow is drawn in \*LXmNbottomShadowColor\*O and
the bottom shadow is drawn in \*LXmNtopShadowColor\*O.  For vertical
orientation, the left edge is drawn in \*LXmNbottomShadowColor\*O and
the right edge is drawn in \*LXmNtopShadowColor\*O.
.LI
\*LXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN_DASH\*O\(emidentical to
\*LXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN\*O except a series of lines creates a dashed line.
.LI
\*LXmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT_DASH\*O\(emidentical to
\*LXmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT\*O except a series of lines creates a dashed line.
.LE
.wH .rE
.LE 
.SS "Inherited Resources"
SeparatorGadget inherits behavior and resources from the following
superclasses.  For a complete description of each resource, refer to the
man page for that superclass.
.PP
.\" NROFF HACK START
.TS
center ;
CB ss
lB lB lB
lB lB lB
l l l.
XmGadget Resource Set
_
Name	Default	Access
\ \ \ \ \ \ Class	\ \ \ \ \ \ Type
_
_
XmNbottomShadowColor	dynamic	G
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBottomShadowColor	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNhelpCallback	NULL	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCallback	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCallbackList
_
XmNhighlightColor	dynamic	G
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHighlightColor	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNhighlightOnEnter	False	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHighlightOnEnter	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNhighlightThickness	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHighlightThickness	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNnavigationType	XmNONE	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCNavigationType	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XmNavigationType
_
XmNshadowThickness	2	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCShadowThickness	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNtopShadowColor	dynamic	G
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCTopShadowColor	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNtraversalOn	False	G
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCTraversalOn	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNunitType	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCUnitType	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ unsigned char
_
XmNuserData	NULL	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCUserData	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtPointer
_
.TE
.\" NROFF HACK END
.PP
.\" NROFF HACK START
.TS
center ;
CB ss
lB lB lB
lB lB lB
l l l.
RectObj Resource Set
_
Name	Default	Access
\ \ \ \ \ \ Class	\ \ \ \ \ \ Type
_
_
XmNancestorSensitive	dynamic	G
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCSensitive	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNborderWidth	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBorderWidth	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNheight	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHeight	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNsensitive	True	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCSensitive	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNwidth	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCWidth	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNx	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCPosition	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Position
_
XmNy	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCPosition	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Position
_
.TE
.\" NROFF HACK END
.PP
.\" NROFF HACK START
.TS
center ;
CB ss
lB lB lB
lB lB lB
l l l.
Object Resource Set
_
Name	Default	Access
\ \ \ \ \ \ Class	\ \ \ \ \ \ Type
_
_
XmNdestroyCallback	NULL	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCallback	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCallbackList
_
.TE
.\" NROFF HACK END
.SS "Behavior"
XmSeparatorGadget has no behavior.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LObject(3X)\*O, \*LRectObj(3X)\*O,
\*LXmCreateSeparatorGadget(3X)\*O,
\*LXmGadget(3X)\*O
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
