.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmSetColorCalculation.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/05 17:39:49 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmSetColorCalculation 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmSetColorCalculation\*O \- A function to set the procedure used for default color calculation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
XmColorProc XmSetColorCalculation (\*Vcolor_proc\*L)
.ta .5i 1.5i
	XmColorProc	\*Vcolor_proc\*L;
.wH .fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmSetColorCalculation"
.iX "Color functions" "XmSetColorCalculation"
\*LXmSetColorCalculation\*O sets the procedure to calculate
default colors.
This procedure is used to calculate the foreground, top shadow, bottom
shadow, and select colors on the basis of a given background color.
If called with an argument of NULL, it restores the default procedure
used to calculate colors.
.VL .75i 
.LI "\*Vcolor_proc\*O"
Specifies the procedure to use for color calculation.
.LE 
.PP 
Following is a description of the \*LXmColorProc\*O type used by
\*LXmSetColorCalculation\*O:
.PP 
.ne 2i
.sS
.iS
void (*\*Vcolor_proc\*L) (\*Vbackground_color, foreground_color, 
          select_color, top_shadow_color, bottom_shadow_color\*L)
.ta 0.5i 1.5i
	XColor	\*V*background_color\*L;
	XColor	\*V*foreground_color\*L;
	XColor	\*V*select_color\*L;
	XColor	\*V*top_shadow_color\*L;
	XColor	\*V*bottom_shadow_color\*L;
.wH .fi
.iE
.sE
.PP 
Specifies the procedure used to calculate default colors.
The procedure is passed a pointer to an \*LXColor\*O structure
representing the background color.
The \*Vpixel\*O, \*Vred\*O, \*Vgreen\*O, and \*Vblue\*O members of this
structure are filled in with values that are valid for the current
colormap.
.PP 
The procedure is passed pointers to \*LXColor\*O structures representing
the foreground, select, top shadow, and bottom shadow colors to be
calculated.
The procedure calculates and fills in the \*Vred\*O, \*Vgreen\*O, and
\*Vblue\*O members of these structures.
The procedure should not allocate color cells for any of these colors.
.VL .75i 
.LI "\*Vbackground_color\*O"
Specifies the background color.
.LI "\*Vforeground_color\*O"
Specifies the foreground color to be calculated.
.LI "\*Vselect_color\*O"
Specifies the select color to be calculated.
.LI "\*Vtop_shadow_color\*O"
Specifies the top shadow color to be calculated.
.LI "\*Vbottom_shadow_color\*O"
Specifies the bottom shadow color to be calculated.
.LE 
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the color calculation procedure that was used at the time this
routine was called.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmChangeColor(3X)\*O,
\*LXmGetColors(3X)\*O, and
\*LXmGetColorCalculation(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
