.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmSeparator.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 19:30:19 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmSeparator 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmSeparator\*O \- The Separator widget class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Separator.h>
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmSeparator"
.iX "widget class" "Separator"
Separator is a primitive widget that
separates items in a display.  Several different
line drawing styles are provided, as well as horizontal or vertical
orientation.
.PP 
The Separator line drawing is automatically
centered within the height of the widget for a horizontal orientation
and centered within the width of the widget for a vertical orientation.
An \*LXtSetValues\*O with a new \*LXmNseparatorType\*O resizes the
widget to its minimal height (for horizontal orientation) or its
minimal width (for
vertical orientation) unless height or width is explicitly set in the
\*LXtSetValues\*O call.
.PP 
Separator does not draw shadows around the separator.
The Primitive resource \*LXmNshadowThickness\*O is used for the
Separator's thickness when \*LXmNseparatorType\*O is \*LXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN\*O,
\*LXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN_DASH\*O, \*LXmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT\*O, or 
\*LXmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT_DASH\*O.
.PP 
Separator does not highlight and allows no traversing.  The primitive
resource \*LXmNtraversalOn\*O is forced to False.
.PP 
The \*LXmNseparatorType\*O of \*LXmNO_LINE\*O provides an escape
to the application
programmer who needs a different style of drawing.
A pixmap the height of the widget can be created and used as the
background pixmap by building an argument list using the
\*LXmNbackgroundPixmap\*O
argument type as defined by \*LCore\*O.
Whenever the widget is redrawn,
its background is displayed containing the desired separator drawing.
.SS "Classes"
Separator inherits behavior and resources from \*LCore\*O
and \*LXmPrimitive\*O Classes.
.PP 
The class pointer is \*LxmSeparatorWidgetClass\*O.
.PP 
The class name is \*LXmSeparator\*O.
.SS "New Resources"
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \*LXmN\*O or
\*LXmC\*O prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \*LXm\*O prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (C),
set by using \*LXtSetValues\*O (S),
retrieved by using \*LXtGetValues\*O (G), or is not applicable (N/A).
.PP
.\" NROFF HACK START
.TS
center ;
CB ss
lB lB lB
lB lB lB
l l l.
XmSeparator Resource Set
_
Name	Default	Access
\ \ \ \ \ \ Class	\ \ \ \ \ \ Type
_
_
XmNmargin	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCMargin	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNorientation	XmHORIZONTAL	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCOrientation	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ unsigned char
_
XmNseparatorType	XmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCSeparatorType	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ unsigned char
_
.TE
.\" NROFF HACK END
.VL  
.LI "\*LXmNmargin\*O"
For horizontal orientation, specifies the space on the left and right
sides between the border of the Separator and the line drawn.
For vertical orientation, specifies the space on the top and
bottom between the border of the Separator and the line drawn.
.LI "\*LXmNorientation\*O"
Displays Separator vertically or horizontally.
This resource can have values of \*LXmVERTICAL\*O and \*LXmHORIZONTAL\*O.
.LI "\*LXmNseparatorType\*O"
Specifies the type of line drawing to be done in the Separator widget.
.wH .rS 
.ML
.LI
\*LXmSINGLE_LINE\*O\(emsingle line.
.LI
\*LXmDOUBLE_LINE\*O\(emdouble line.
.LI
\*LXmSINGLE_DASHED_LINE\*O\(emsingle-dashed line.
.LI
\*LXmDOUBLE_DASHED_LINE\*O\(emdouble-dashed line.
.LI
\*LXmNO_LINE\*O\(emno line.
.nL
.ne 15
.LI
\*LXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN\*O\(ema line whose shadows give the
effect of a line etched into the window.  The thickness of the
line is equal to the value of \*LXmNshadowThickness\*O.  For
horizontal orientation, the top shadow is drawn in \*LXmNtopShadowColor\*O
and the bottom shadow is drawn in \*LXmNbottomShadowColor\*O.  For
vertical orientation, the left edge is drawn in \*LXmNtopShadowColor\*O
and the right edge is drawn in \*LXmNbottomShadowColor\*O.
.LI
\*LXmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT\*O\(ema line whose shadows give the effect
of an etched line coming out of the window.  The thickness of the
line is equal to the value of \*LXmNshadowThickness\*O.  For horizontal
orientation, the top shadow is drawn in \*LXmNbottomShadowColor\*O and
the bottom shadow is drawn in \*LXmNtopShadowColor\*O.  For vertical
orientation, the left edge is drawn in \*LXmNbottomShadowColor\*O and
the right edge is drawn in \*LXmNtopShadowColor\*O.
.LI
\*LXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN_DASH\*O\(emidentical to
\*LXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN\*O except a series of lines creates a dashed line.
.LI
\*LXmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT_DASH\*O\(emidentical to
\*LXmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT\*O except a series of lines creates a dashed line.
.LE 
.wH .rE
.LE 
.SS "Inherited Resources"
Separator inherits behavior and resources from the following
superclasses.  For a complete description of each resource, refer to the
man page for that superclass.
.PP
.\" NROFF HACK START
.TS
center ;
CB ss
lB lB lB
lB lB lB
l l l.
XmPrimitive Resource Set
_
Name	Default	Access
\ \ \ \ \ \ Class	\ \ \ \ \ \ Type
_
_
XmNbottomShadowColor	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBottomShadowColor	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNbottomShadowPixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBottomShadowPixmap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixmap
_
XmNforeground	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCForeground	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNhelpCallback	NULL	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCallback	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCallbackList
_
XmNhighlightColor	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHighlightColor	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNhighlightOnEnter	False	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHighlightOnEnter	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNhighlightPixmap	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHighlightPixmap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixmap
_
XmNhighlightThickness	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHighlightThickness	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
.wH .tH
XmNnavigationType	XmNONE	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCNavigationType	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XmNavigationType
_
XmNshadowThickness	2	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCShadowThickness	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNtopShadowColor	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCTopShadowColor	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNtopShadowPixmap	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCTopShadowPixmap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixmap
_
XmNtraversalOn	False	G
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCTraversalOn	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNunitType	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCUnitType	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ unsigned char
_
XmNuserData	NULL	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCUserData	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtPointer
_
.TE
.\" NROFF HACK END
.PP
.wH .in 0 
.\" NROFF HACK START
.TS
center ;
CB ss
lB lB lB
lB lB lB
l l l.
Core Resource Set
_
Name	Default	Access
\ \ \ \ \ \ Class	\ \ \ \ \ \ Type
_
_
XmNaccelerators	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCAccelerators	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtAccelerators
_
XmNancestorSensitive	dynamic	G
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCSensitive	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNbackground	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBackground	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNbackgroundPixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCPixmap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixmap
_
XmNborderColor	XtDefaultForeground	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBorderColor	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixel
_
XmNborderPixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCPixmap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Pixmap
_
XmNborderWidth	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCBorderWidth	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNcolormap	dynamic	CG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCColormap	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Colormap
_
XmNdepth	dynamic	CG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCDepth	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ int
_
XmNdestroyCallback	NULL	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCCallback	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtCallbackList
_
XmNheight	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCHeight	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNinitialResourcesPersistent	True	C
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCInitialResourcesPersistent	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNmappedWhenManaged	True	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCMappedWhenManaged	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNscreen	dynamic	CG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCScreen	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Screen *
_
.wH .tH
XmNsensitive	True	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCSensitive	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Boolean
_
XmNtranslations	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCTranslations	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ XtTranslations
_
XmNwidth	dynamic	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCWidth	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Dimension
_
XmNx	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCPosition	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Position
_
XmNy	0	CSG
\ \ \ \ \ \ XmCPosition	\ \ \ \ \ \ \ Position
_
.TE
.\" NROFF HACK END
.wH .in  
.SS "Translations"
There are no translations for XmSeparator.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LCore(3X)\*O, \*LXmCreateSeparator(3X)\*O,
and \*LXmPrimitive(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
