.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmStringGetNextComponent.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/14 19:56:41 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmStringGetNextComponent 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmStringGetNextComponent\*O \- A compound string function that returns the type and value of the next component in a compound string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
.ta 1i
XmStringComponentType XmStringGetNextComponent (\*Vcontext, text, tag, 
	direction, unknown_tag, unknown_length, unknown_value\*L)
.ta .5i 2.5i
	XmStringContext	\*Vcontext\*L;
	char	**\*Vtext\*L;
	XmStringCharSet	*\*Vtag\*L;
	XmStringDirection	*\*Vdirection\*L;
	XmStringComponentType	*\*Vunknown_tag\*L;
	unsigned short	*\*Vunknown_length\*L;
	unsigned char	**\*Vunknown_value\*L;
.wH .fi
.ne 10
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmStringGetNextComponent"
.iX "compound string functions" "XmStringGetNextComponent"
\*LXmStringGetNextComponent\*O
returns the type and value of the next component in
the compound string identified by \*Vcontext\*O.  It is a low-level
component function.  Components are returned one at a time.  On return, only
some output parameters will be valid; which ones can be determined by
examining the return status.  In the case of \*Vtext\*O,
\*Vtag\*O, and \*Vdirection\*O components, only one
output parameter is valid.  If the return status indicates an unknown
component was encountered, the font list element tag, length, and value
are returned.  This function allocates the space necessary to hold
returned values; freeing this space is the caller's responsibility.
.VL 1.25i 
.LI "\*Vcontext\*O"
Specifies the string context structure which was allocated by the
\*LXmStringInitContext\*O function.
.LI "\*Vtext\*O"
Specifies a pointer to a null terminated string.
.LI "\*Vtag\*O"
Specifies a pointer to the font list element tag associated with the
text.  The value \*LXmFONTLIST_DEFAULT_TAG\*O identifies a locale
text segment.
.LI "\*Vdirection\*O"
Specifies a pointer to the direction of the text.
.LI "\*Vunknown_tag\*O"
Specifies a pointer to the tag of an unknown component.
.LI "\*Vunknown_length\*O"
Specifies a pointer to the length of an unknown component.
.LI "\*Vunknown_value\*O"
Specifies a pointer to the value of an unknown component.
.PP
.ne 25
.LE 
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the type of component found.
Following are the possible values:
.wH .rS 
.ML
.LI 
\*LXmSTRING_COMPONENT_CHARSET\*O
.PP
This component is obsolete and remains for
compatibility with previous releases.  It has been
replaced by \*LXmSTRING_COMPONENT_FONTLIST_ELEMENT_TAG\*O.
.LI
\*LXmSTRING_COMPONENT_FONTLIST_ELEMENT_TAG\*O
.LI
\*LXmSTRING_COMPONENT_LOCALE_TEXT\*O
.LI
\*LXmSTRING_COMPONENT_TAG\*O
.LI
\*LXmSTRING_COMPONENT_TEXT\*O
.LI
\*LXmSTRING_COMPONENT_DIRECTION\*O
.LI
\*LXmSTRING_COMPONENT_SEPARATOR\*O
.LI
\*LXmSTRING_COMPONENT_END\*O
.LI
\*LXmSTRING_COMPONENT_UNKNOWN\*O
.LE
.wH .rE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmStringCreate(3X)\*O and \*LXmStringInitContext(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
