.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmStringCreateLtoR.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 19:35:01 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmStringCreateLtoR 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmStringCreateLtoR\*O \- A compound string function that creates a compound string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
XmString XmStringCreateLtoR (\*Vtext, tag\*L)
.ta .5i 1.25i
	char	*\*Vtext\*L;
	char	*\*Vtag\*L;
.wH .fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmStringCreateLtoR"
.iX "compound string functions" "XmStringCreateLtoR"
\*LXmStringCreateLtoR\*O creates a compound
string with two components: text and a font list element tag.
This function imposes the semantic of scanning for \*L\en\*O
characters in the text.  When one is found, the text up to that point
is put into a segment followed by a separator component.  No final
separator component is appended to the end of the compound string.
The direction defaults to left-to-right.
This function assumes that the encoding is single octet
rather than double octet per character of text.
.VL .75i 
.LI "\*Vtext\*O"
Specifies a null-terminated string to be used as the text component of
the compound string.
.nL
.ne 6
.LI "\*Vtag\*O"
Specifies the font list element tag to be associated with the given
text.  The value \*LXmFONTLIST_DEFAULT_TAG\*O identifies a locale
text segment.
.LE 
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a new compound string.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmStringCreate(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
