.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmStringGetLtoR.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/14 19:56:36 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmStringGetLtoR 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmStringGetLtoR\*O \- A compound string function that searches for a text segment in the input compound string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Boolean XmStringGetLtoR (\*Vstring, tag, text\*L)
.ta .5i 1.5i
	XmString	\*Vstring\*L;
	XmStringCharSet	\*Vtag\*L;
	char	**\*Vtext\*L;
.wH .fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmStringGetLtoR"
.iX "compound string functions" "XmStringGetLtoR"
\*LXmStringGetLtoR\*O searches for a text segment in the input
compound string that matches the given font list element tag.
.VL .75i 
.LI "\*Vstring\*O"
Specifies the compound string.
.LI "\*Vtag\*O"
Specifies the font list element tag associated with the text.
A value of \*LXmFONTLIST_DEFAULT_TAG\*O identifies a locale text
segment.
.LI "\*Vtext\*O"
Specifies a pointer to a null terminated string.
.LE 
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns True if the matching text segment can be found.
On return, \*Vtext\*O will have a null terminated octet sequence
containing the matched segment.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmStringCreate(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
