.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmStringInitContext.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 19:38:57 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmStringInitContext 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmStringInitContext\*O \- A compound string function that allows applications to read out the content segment by segment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Boolean XmStringInitContext (\*Vcontext, string\*L)
.ta .5i 1.75i
	XmStringContext	\*V* context\*L;
	XmString	\*Vstring\*L;
.wH .fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmStringInitContext"
.iX "compound string functions" "XmStringInitContext"
\*LXmStringInitContext\*O
maintains a context to allow applications to read out the
contents of a compound string segment by segment.  This function establishes
the context for this read out. This context is used when reading
subsequent segments out of the string.
A Boolean status is returned to indicate if the
input string could be parsed.
.VL .75i 
.LI "\*Vcontext\*O"
Specifies a pointer to the allocated context
.LI "\*Vstring\*O"
Specifies the string.
.LE 
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns True if the context was allocated
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmStringCreate(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
