.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmStringCreateSimple.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 19:35:15 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmStringCreateSimple 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmStringCreateSimple\*O \- A compound string function that creates a compound string in the language environment of a widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
XmString XmStringCreateSimple (\*Vtext\*L)
.ta .5i 1.25i
	char	\*V* text\*L;
.wH .fi
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmStringCreateSimple"
.iX "compound string functions" "XmStringCreateSimple"
\*LXmStringCreateSimple\*O creates a compound
string with two components: text and a character set.
It derives the character set from the current language environment.
.PP 
The routine attempts to derive a character set from the value of the
LANG environment variable.
If this does not result in a valid character set, the routine uses a
vendor-specific default.
If the vendor has not specified a different value, this default is
ISO8859-1.
.PP
NOTE:  This routine is obsolete and exists for compatibility with previous
releases.  It has been replaced by \*LXmStringCreateLocalized\*O.
.VL .75i 
.LI "\*Vtext\*O"
Specifies a null-terminated string to be used as the text component of
the compound string.
.LE 
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a new compound string.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmStringCreate(3X)\*O and
\*LXmStringCreateLocalized(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
