.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmTextDisableRedisplay.3X,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 19:41:26 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmTextDisableRedisplay 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmTextDisableRedisplay\*O \- A Text function that temporarily prevents visual update of the Text widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Text.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmTextDisableRedisplay (\*Vwidget\*L)
.ta .5i 1.7i
	Widget		\*Vwidget\*L;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmTextDisableRedisplay"
.iX "Text functions" "XmTextDisableRedisplay" 
\*LXmTextDisableRedisplay\*O prevents redisplay of the specified
Text widget even though its visual attributes have been
modified.  The visual appearance of the widget remains
unchanged until \*LXmTextEnableRedisplay\*O is called.
This allows an application to make multiple changes to
the widget without causing intermediate visual updates.
.VL .75i
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
Specifies the Text widget ID
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmTextEnableRedisplay(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
