.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmTextReplace.3X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 19:49:34 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmTextReplace 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmTextReplace\*O \- A Text function that replaces part of a text string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Text.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmTextReplace (\*Vwidget, from_pos, to_pos, value\*L)
.ta .5i 1.7i
	Widget	\*Vwidget\*L;
	XmTextPosition	\*Vfrom_pos\*L;
	XmTextPosition	\*Vto_pos\*L;
	char	\*V* value\*L;
.ne 12
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmTextReplace"
.iX "Text functions" "XmTextReplace"
\*LXmTextReplace\*O replaces part of the text string in the Text widget.  The
character positions begin at zero and are numbered sequentially from the
beginning of the text.
.nL
.ne 5
.PP 
An example text replacement would be to replace
the second and third characters in the text string.  To accomplish this,
the parameter \*Vfrom_pos\*O must be 1 and \*Vto_pos\*O must be 3.  To
insert a string after the fourth character, both parameters, \*Vfrom_pos\*O
and \*Vto_pos\*O, must be 4.
.PP 
.ne 20
This routine calls the widget's \*LXmNvalueChangedCallback\*O and
verification callbacks, either \*LXmNmodifyVerifyCallback\*O or
\*LXmNmodifyVerifyCallbackWcs\*O, or both.  If both verification
callback lists are registered, the procedures of the
\*LXmNmodifyVerifyCallback\*O list are executed first and the resulting
data is passed to the \*LXmNmodifyVerifyCallbackWcs\*O callbacks.
.PP
.nL
.ne 5
.VL .75i 
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
Specifies the Text widget ID
.LI "\*Vfrom_pos\*O"
Specifies the start position of the text to be replaced
.LI "\*Vto_pos\*O"
Specifies the end position of the text to be replaced
.LI "\*Vvalue\*O"
Specifies the character string value to be added to the text widget
.LE 
.PP 
For a complete definition of Text and its associated resources, see
\*LXmText(3X)\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmText(3X)\*O and
\*LXmTextReplaceWcs(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
