.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmTextGetSubstring.3X,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/25 19:48:21 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmTextGetSubstring 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmTextGetSubstring\*O \- A Text function that retrieves a copy of a portion of the internal text buffer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Text.h>
.sp \n(PDu
int XmTextGetSubstring (\*Vwidget, start, num_chars, buffer_size, buffer\*L)
.ta .5i 1.7i
	Widget		\*Vwidget\*L;
	XmTextPosition	\*Vstart\*L;
	int		\*Vnum_chars\*L;
	int		\*Vbuffer_size\*L;
	char		*\*Vbuffer\*L;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmTextGetSubstring"
.iX "Text functions" "XmTextGetSubstring" 
\*LXmTextGetSubstring\*O retrieves a copy of a portion of the internal
text buffer of a Text widget.  The function
copies a specified number of characters from a given start position
in the internal text buffer into a buffer provided by the 
application.  A NULL terminator is placed at the end of the copied data.
.PP
The size of the required buffer depends on the maximum number of bytes
per character (\*LMB_CUR_MAX\*O) for the current locale.
\*LMB_CUR_MAX\*O is a macro defined in \*Lstdlib.h\*O.  The buffer
should be large enough to contain the substring to be copied and
a NULL terminator.  Use the following equation to calculate the
size of buffer the application should provide:
.PP 
\*Vbuffer_size\*O = (\*Vnum_chars\*O * \*LMB_CUR_MAX\*O) + 1
.VL 1i
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
Specifies the Text widget ID.
.LI "\*Vstart\*O"
Specifies the beginning character position from which the data will be
retrieved.  This is an integer number of characters from the beginning
of the text buffer.  The first character position is 0.
.LI "\*Vnum_chars\*O"
Specifies the number of characters to be copied into the provided buffer.
.LI "\*Vbuffer_size\*O"
Specifies the size of the supplied buffer in bytes.  This size
should account for a NULL terminator.
.LI "\*Vbuffer\*O"
Specifies the character buffer into which the internal
text buffer will be copied. 
.LE
.PP
For a complete definition of Text and its associated resources,
see \*LXmText(3X)\*O.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.VL 2i
.LI "\*LXmCOPY_SUCCEEDED\*O"
The function was successful.
.LI "\*LXmCOPY_FAILED\*O"
The function failed because it was unable to copy the 
specified number of characters into the buffer provided.
The buffer size may be insufficient.  The contents of
\*Vbuffer\*O are undefined.
.LI "\*LXmCOPY_TRUNCATED\*O"
The requested number of characters extended beyond the internal
buffer.  The function copied characters between \*Vstart\*O and the
end of the widget's buffer and terminated the string with a NULL
terminator; fewer than \*Vnum_chars\*O characters were copied.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmText(3X)\*O and \*LXmTextGetSubstringWcs(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
