.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmTextFindString.3X,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/14 23:52:06 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmTextFindString 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmTextFindString\*O \- A Text function that finds the beginning position of a text string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
Boolean XmTextFindString (\*Vwidget, start, string, direction, 
	position\*L)
.ta .5i 1.75i
	Widget		\*Vwidget\*L;
	XmTextPosition	\*Vstart\*L;
	char		*\*Vstring\*L;
	XmTextDirection	\*Vdirection\*L;
	XmTextPosition	*\*Vposition\*L;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmTextFindString"
.iX "Text functions" "XmTextFindString" 
\*LXmTextFindString\*O locates the beginning position of a specified 
text string.  This routine searches forward or backward for the first
occurrence of the string starting from the given start position. 
.ig ++ \" apparently the code doesn't do this
If a match is not found, the search wraps to the beginning of the buffer
(to the end, when \*Vdirection\*O is \*LXmTEXT_BACKWARD\*O) and continues
to the initial start position.
.++
If it finds a match, the function
returns the position of the first character of the string in \*Vposition\*O.
.VL .75i
.LI "\*Vwidget\*O"
Specifies the Text widget ID.
.LI "\*Vstart\*O"
Specifies the character position from which the search proceeds.  This
is an integer number of characters from the beginning of the text
buffer.  The first character position is 0.
.LI "\*Vstring\*O"
Specifies the search string.
.LI "\*Vdirection\*O"
Indicates the search direction.  It is relative to the primary
direction of the text.  The possible values are
.VL 1.75i
.LI "\*LXmTEXT_FORWARD\*O"
The search proceeds toward the end of the text buffer.
.LI "\*LXmTEXT_BACKWARD\*O"
The search proceeds toward the beginning of the text buffer.
.LE
.LI "\*Vposition\*O"
Specifies the pointer in which the first character position
of the string match is returned.  This is an integer number
of characters from the beginning of the buffer.  The first
character position is 0.  If the function returns False, 
this value is undefined.
.LE
.PP
For a complete definition of Text and its associated resources,
see \*LXmText(3X)\*O.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns True if a string match is found; otherwise, returns False.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LXmText(3X)\*O and \*LXmTextFindStringWcs(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
