.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XmTranslateKey.3X,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/14 23:52:32 $
.\"
.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1992 by Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmTranslateKey 3X "" "" "" "OSF/Motif"
.SH NAME
\*LXmTranslateKey\*O \- The default keycode-to-keysym translator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.iS
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp \n(PDu
void XmTranslateKey (\*Vdisplay, keycode, modifiers, modifiers_return, 
	keysym_return\*L)
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Display		*\*Vdisplay\*L;
	KeyCode		\*Vkeycode\*L;
	Modifiers	\*Vmodifiers\*L;
	Modifiers	*\*Vmodifiers_return\*L;
	KeySym		*\*Vkeysym_return\*L;
.iE
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "XmTranslateKey"
\*LXmTranslateKey\*O is the default \*LXtKeyProc\*O translation
procedure for Motif applications.  The function takes a keycode
and modifiers and returns the corresponding keysym.
.PP
\*LXmTranslateKey\*O serves two main purposes: new translators
with expanded functionality can call it to get the default 
Motif keycode-to-keysym translation in addition to whatever they add,
and so that the default translator can be reinstalled.  This function enables
keysyms defined by the Motif virtual bindings to be used when an
application requires its own XtKeyProc to be installed.
.VL 1.25i
.LI "\*Vdisplay\*O"
Specifies the display that the keycode is from
.LI "\*Vkeycode\*O"
Specifies the keycode to translate
.LI "\*Vmodifiers\*O"
Specifies the modifier keys to be applied to the keycode
.LI "\*Vmodifiers_return\*O"
Specifies a mask of the modifier keys actually used to generate
the keysym (an AND of \*Vmodifiers\*O and any default modifiers
applied by the currently registered translator)
.LI "\*Vkeysym_return\*O"
Specifies a pointer to the resulting keysym
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\*LVirtualBindings(3X)\*O.
.ad
.EQ
delim off
.EN
