.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XtAddCallback.3Xt,v $ $Revision: 1.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/05/03 16:47:14 $
.\" 
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtMake-Geometry-Request XtQuery-Geometry wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .2i 2i
.ta .2i 2i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.ny0
.TH XtAddCallback 3Xt "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
XtAddCallback, XtAddCallbacks, XtRemoveCallback, XtRemoveCallbacks, XtRemoveAllCallbacks \- add and remove callback procedures
.SH SYNTAX
void XtAddCallback(\f2w\fP, \f2callback_name, \fP\f2callback\fP, \
\f2client_data\fP)
.br
      Widget \f2w\fP;
.br
      String \f2callback_name\fP;
.br
      XtCallbackProc \f2callback\fP;
.br
      XtPointer \f2client_data\fP;
.LP
void XtAddCallbacks(\f2w\fP, \f2callback_name, \fP\f2callbacks\fP)
.br
      Widget \f2w\fP;
.br
      String \f2callback_name\fP;
.br
      XtCallbackList \f2callbacks\fP;
.LP
void XtRemoveCallback(\f2w\fP, \f2callback_name\fP, \f2callback\fP, \
\f2client_data\fP)
.br
      Widget \f2w\fP;
.br
      String \f2callback_name\fP;
.br
      XtCallbackProc \f2callback\fP;
.br
      XtPointer \f2client_data\fP;
.LP
void XtRemoveCallbacks(\f2w\fP, \f2callback_name\fP, \f2callbacks\fP)
.br
      Widget \f2w\fP;
.br
      String \f2callback_name\fP;
.br
      XtCallbackList \f2callbacks\fP;
.LP
void XtRemoveAllCallbacks(\f2w\fP, \f2callback_name\fP)
.br
      Widget \f2w\fP;
.br
      String \f2callback_name\fP;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \f2callback\fP 1i
Specifies the callback procedure\*(Cb.
.IP \f2callbacks\fP 1i
Specifies the null-terminated list of callback procedures and corresponding
client data.
.ds Cn \ to which the procedure is to be appended or deleted
.IP \f2callback_name\fP 1i
Specifies the callback list\*(Cn.
.ds Cd it is invoked by XtCallbacks or NULL, \
or the client data to match on the registered callback procedures
.IP \f2client_data\fP 1i
Specifies the argument that is to be passed to the specified procedure
when \*(Cd.
.IP \f2w\fP 1i
Specifies the widget.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN XtAddCallback
function adds the specified callback procedure to the specified widget's
callback list.
.LP
The
.PN XtAddCallbacks
add the specified list of callbacks to the specified widget's callback list.
.LP
The
.PN XtRemoveCallback
function removes a callback only if both the procedure and the client
data match.
.LP
The
.PN XtRemoveCallbacks
function removes the specified callback procedures from the specified
widget's callback list.
.LP
The
.PN XtRemoveAllCallbacks
function removes all the callback procedures from the specified
widget's callback list.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtCallCallbacks(3Xt)
.br
\f2\*(xT\fP
.br
\f2\*(xL\fP
.EQ
delim off
.EN
