.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XtAppAddTimeOut.3Xt,v $ $Revision: 1.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/05/03 16:48:23 $
.\" 
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtMake-Geometry-Request XtQuery-Geometry wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .2i 2i
.ta .2i 2i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.ny0
.TH XtAppAddTimeOut 3Xt "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
XtAppAddTimeOut, XtRemoveTimeOut \- register and remove timeouts
.SH SYNTAX
XtIntervalId XtAppAddTimeOut(\f2app_context\fP, \f2interval\fP, \f2proc\fP, \
\f2client_data\fP)
.br
      XtAppContext \f2app_context\fP;
.br
      unsigned long \f2interval\fP;
.br
      XtTimerCallbackProc \f2proc\fP;
.br
      XtPointer \f2client_data\fP;
.LP
void XtRemoveTimeOut(\f2timer\fP)
.br
      XtIntervalId \f2timer\fP;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.ds Co for which the timer is to be set
.IP \f2app_context\fP 1i
Specifies the application context \*(Co.
.IP \f2client_data\fP 1i
Specifies the argument that is to be passed to the specified procedure
when \*(Cd.
.IP \f2interval\fP 1i
Specifies the time interval in milliseconds.
.ds Pr \ to be called when time expires
.IP \f2proc\fP 1i
Specifies the procedure that is\*(Pr.
.IP \f2timer\fP 1i
Specifies the ID for the timeout request to be destroyed.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN XtAppAddTimeOut
function creates a timeout and returns an identifier for it.
The timeout value is set to interval.
The callback procedure is called when the time interval elapses,
and then the timeout is removed.
.LP
The
.PN XtRemoveTimeOut
function removes the timeout.
Note that timeouts are automatically removed once they trigger.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtAppAddInput(3Xt)
.br
\f2\*(xT\fP
.br
\f2\*(xL\fP
.EQ
delim off
.EN
