.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtMake-Geometry-Request XtQuery-Geometry wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.PP
.KS
.TA .2i 2i
.ta .2i 2i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.PP
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.ny0
.TH XtAppInitialize 3Xt "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
XtAppInitialize \- initialize X Toolkit internals, create an application context, open and initialize a display, and create the initial application shell instance.
.SH SYNTAX
.NX "XtAppInitialize"
XtAppInitialize(\f2app_context_return\fP, \f2application_class\fP, \
\f2options\fP, \f2num_options\fP, \f2argc_in_out\fP, \f2argv_in_out\fP, \
\f2fallback_resources\fP, \f2args\fP, \f2num_args\fP)
.br
    XtAppContext \f2*app_context_return\fP;
.br
    String \f2application_class\fP;
.br
    XrmOptionDescList \f2options\fP;
.br
    Cardinal \f2num_options\fP;
.br
    Cardinal \f2*argc_in_out\fP;
.br
    String \f2*argv_in_out\fP;
.br
    String \f2*fallback_resources\fP;
.br
    ArgList \f2args\fP;
.br
    Cardinal \f2num_args\fP;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \f2app_context\fP 1i
If non-NULL, returns the application context.
.IP \f2app_class\fP 1i
Specifies the class name of the application.
.IP \f2options\fP 1i
Specifies the command line options table.
.IP \f2num_options\fP 1i
Specifies the number of entries in options list.
.IP \f2argc\fP li
Specifies the number of command line arguments.
.IP \f2argv\fP 1i
Specifies a list of command line arguments.
.IP \f2fallbacks\fP 1i
Specifies a null-terminated list of resource specifications, or NULL.
.IP \f2args\fP li
Specifies an argument list used to override default values.
.IP \f2num_args\fP li
Specifies the number of entries in the argument list.
.IP \f2\fP li
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN XtAppInitialize
function performs the following operations:
.IP \(bu
Initializes the X Tookkit Intrinsics library by calling
.PN XtToolkitinitialize .
.IP \(bu
Creates an application context by calling
.PN XtCreateApplicationContext.
.IP \(bu
Creates a set of fallback resources by calling
.PN XtAppSetFallbackResources
with
.I fallbacks
if it in non-NULL.
.IP \(bu
Opens and initializes a display by calling
.PN XtOpenDisplay
with a
.I display_name
of NULL and an
.I application_name
of NULL.
.IP \(bu
Calls
.PN XtAppCreateShell
with an
.I application_name
of NULL, a
.I widget_class
of applicationShellWidgetClass,
and the specified
.I args
and
.I num_args.
.PP
The
.PN XtAppInitialize
function returns the ID of the newly created shell widget.
The modified values returned by
.PN XtOpenDisplay
for
.I argc
and
.I argv
are returned to the caller.
If
.I app_context
is not NULL, the application context created by
.PN XtCreateApplicationContext
is also returned.
If the display specified by the command line cannot be opened, an error
message is issued and the application is terminated.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PN XtAppCreateShell(3Xt)
and
.\" XtAppSetFallbackResources,
.PN XtCreateApplicationContext(3Xt) .
.\" XtOpenDisplay,
.\" XtToolkitinitialize.
.\" (Note:  No manpages exist for XtAppSetFallbackResources,
.\" XtOpenDisplay, or XtToolkitinitialize(3Xt).
.PP
\f2\*(xT\fP
.br
\f2\*(xL\fP
.EQ
delim off
.EN
