.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XtAppGetErrorDatabase.3Xt,v $ $Revision: 1.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/05/03 16:49:10 $
.\" 
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtMake-Geometry-Request XtQuery-Geometry wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .2i 2i
.ta .2i 2i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.ny0
.TH XtAppGetErrorDatabase 3Xt "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
XtAppGetErrorDatabase, XtAppGetErrorDatabaseText \- obtain error database
.SH SYNTAX
XrmDatabase *XtAppGetErrorDatabase(\^\f2app_context\fP\^)
.br
     XtAppContext \f2app_context\fP;
.LP
void XtAppGetErrorDatabaseText(\f2app_context\fP, \f2name\fP, \f2type\fP, \f2class\fP, \f2default\fP, \f2buffer_return\fP, \f2nbytes\fP, \f2database\fP)
.br
       XtAppContext \f2app_context\fP;
.br
       char *\f2name\fP, *\f2type\fP, *\f2class\fP;
.br
       char *\f2default\fP;
.br
       char *\f2buffer_return\fP;
.br
       int \f2nbytes\fP;
.br
       XrmDatabase \f2database\fP;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \f2app_context\fP 1i
Specifies the application context.
.IP \f2buffer_return\fP 1i
Specifies the buffer into which the error message is to be returned.
.ds Cl \ of the error message
.IP \f2class\fP 1i
Specifies the resource class\*(Cl.
.IP \f2database\fP 1i
Specifies the name of the alternative database that is to be used
or NULL if the application's database is to be used.
.IP \f2default\fP 1i
Specifies the default message to use\*(Dm.
.IP \f2name\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \f2type\fP 1i
Specifies the name and type that are concatenated to form the resource name 
of the error message.
.IP \f2nbytes\fP 1i
Specifies the size of the buffer in bytes.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN XtAppGetErrorDatabase
function returns the address of the error database.
The \*(xI do a lazy binding of the error database and do not merge in the
database file until the first call to
.PN XtAppGetErrorDatbaseText .
.LP
The
.PN XtAppGetErrorDatabaseText
returns the appropriate message from the error database
or returns the specified default message if one is not found in the
error database.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtAppError(3Xt),
XtAppErrorMsg(3Xt)
.br
\f2\*(xT\fP
.br
\f2\*(xL\fP
.EQ
delim off
.EN
