.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XtConvert.3Xt,v $ $Revision: 1.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/05/03 16:50:37 $
.\" 
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtMake-Geometry-Request XtQuery-Geometry wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .2i 2i
.ta .2i 2i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.ny0
.TH XtConvert 3Xt "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
XtConvert, XtDirectConvert \- invoke resource converters
.SH SYNTAX
void XtConvert(\f2w\fP, \f2from_type\fP, \f2from\fP, \f2to_type\fP, \
\f2to_return\fP)
.br
    Widget \f2w\fP;
.br
    String \f2from_type\fP;
.br
    XrmValuePtr \f2from\fP;
.br
    String \f2to_type\fP;
.br
    XrmValuePtr \f2to_return\fP;
.LP
void XtDirectConvert(\f2converter\fP, \f2args\fP, \f2num_args\fP, \f2from\fP, \
\f2to_return\fP)
.br
    XtConverter \f2converter\fP;
.br
    XrmValuePtr \f2args\fP;
.br
    Cardinal \f2num_args\fP;
.br
    XrmValuePtr \f2from\fP;
.br
    XrmValuePtr \f2to_return\fP;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.ds Al that contains the additional arguments needed to perform \
the conversion (often NULL)
.IP \f2args\fP 1i
Specifies the argument list \*(Al.
.IP \f2converter\fP 1i
Specifies the conversion procedure that is to be called.
.IP \f2from\fP 1i
Specifies the value to be converted.
.IP \f2from_type\fP 1i
Specifies the source type.
.IP \f2num_args\fP 1i
Specifies the number of additional arguments (often zero).
.IP \f2to_type\fP 1i
Specifies the destination type.
.IP \f2to_return\fP 1i
Returns the converted value.
.ds Wi to use for additional arguments (if any are needed)
.IP \f2w\fP 1i
Specifies the widget \*(Wi.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN XtConvert
function looks up the type converter registered to convert from_type 
to to_type, computes any additional arguments needed, and then calls
.PN XtDirectConvert .
.LP
The
.PN XtDirectConvert
function looks in the converter cache to see if this conversion procedure
has been called with the specified arguments.
If so, it returns a descriptor for information stored in the cache;
otherwise, it calls the converter and enters the result in the cache.
.LP
Before calling the specified converter,
.PN XtDirectConvert
sets the return value size to zero and the return value address to NULL.
To determine if the conversion was successful,
the client should check to_return.address for non-NULL.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtAppAddConverter(3Xt),
XtStringConversionWarning(3Xt)
.br
\f2\*(xT\fP
.br
\f2\*(xL\fP
.EQ
delim off
.EN
