.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XtCreatePopupShell.3Xt,v $ $Revision: 1.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/05/03 16:50:56 $
.\" 
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtMake-Geometry-Request XtQuery-Geometry wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .2i 2i
.ta .2i 2i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.ny0
.TH XtCreatePopupShell 3Xt "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
XtCreatePopupShell \- create a popup shell
.SH SYNTAX
Widget XtCreatePopupShell(\f2name\fP, \f2widget_class\fP, \f2parent\fP, \
\f2args\fP, \f2num_args\fP)
.br
      String \f2name\fP;
.br
      WidgetClass \f2widget_class\fP;
.br
      Widget \f2parent\fP;
.br
      ArgList \f2args\fP;
.br
      Cardinal \f2num_args\fP;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.ds Al to override the resource defaults
.IP \f2args\fP 1i
Specifies the argument list \*(Al.
.ds Sh \ shell
.IP \f2name\fP 1i
Specifies the text name for the created\*(Sh widget.
.IP \f2num_args\fP 1i
Specifies the number of arguments in the argument list.
.IP \f2parent\fP 1i
Specifies the parent widget.
.ds Wc \ pointer for the created shell widget
.IP \f2widget_class\fP 1i
Specifies the widget class\*(Wc.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN XtCreatePopupShell
function ensures that the specified class is a subclass of
.PN Shell
and, rather than using insert_child to attach the widget to the parent's
.NX R "insert_child procedure"
children list, attaches the shell to the parent's pop-ups list directly.
.LP
A spring-loaded pop-up invoked from a translation table already must exist
at the time that the translation is invoked, 
so the translation manager can find the shell by name.
Pop-ups invoked in other ways can be created ``on-the-fly'' when
the pop-up actually is needed.
This delayed creation of the shell is particularly useful when you pop up
an unspecified number of pop-ups.
You can look to see if an appropriate unused shell (that is, not
currently popped up) exists and create a new shell if needed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtCreateWidget(3Xt),
XtPopdown(3Xt),
XtPopup(3Xt)
.br
\f2\*(xT\fP
.br
\f2\*(xL\fP
.EQ
delim off
.EN
