.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XtGetGC.3Xt,v $ $Revision: 1.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/05/03 16:51:44 $
.\" 
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtMake-Geometry-Request XtQuery-Geometry wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .2i 2i
.ta .2i 2i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.ny0
.TH XtGetGC 3Xt "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
XtGetGC, XtReleaseGC \- obtain and destroy a sharable GC
.SH SYNTAX
GC XtGetGC(\f2w\fP, \f2value_mask\fP, \f2values\fP)
.br
      Widget \f2w\fP;
.br
      XtGCMask \f2value_mask\fP;
.br
      XGCValues *\f2values\fP;
.LP
void XtReleaseGC(\f2w\fP, \f2gc\fP)
.br
      Widget \f2w\fP;
.br
      GC \f2gc\fP;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \f2gc\fP 1i
Specifies the GC to be deallocated.
.IP \f2values\fP 1i
Specifies the actual values for this GC.
.ds Vm fields of the values are specified
.IP \f2value_mask\fP 1i
Specifies which \*(Vm.
.IP \f2w\fP 1i
Specifies the widget.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN XtGetGC
function returns a sharable, read-only GC.
The parameters to this function are the same as those for
.PN XCreateGC 
except that a widget is passed instead of a display.
.PN XtGetGC
shares only GCs in which all values in the GC returned by
.PN XCreateGC
are the same.
In particular, it does not use the value_mask provided to
determine which fields of the GC a widget considers relevant.
The value_mask is used only to tell the server which fields should be
filled in with widget data and which it should fill in with default values.
For further information about value_mask and values,
see
.PN XCreateGC
in the \f2\*(xL\fP.
.LP
The
.PN XtReleaseGC
function deallocate the specified shared GC.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
\f2\*(xT\fP
.br
\f2\*(xL\fP
.EQ
delim off
.EN
