.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XtGetSubresources.3Xt,v $ $Revision: 1.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/05/03 16:52:13 $
.\" 
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtMake-Geometry-Request XtQuery-Geometry wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .2i 2i
.ta .2i 2i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.ny0
.TH XtGetSubresources 3Xt "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
XtGetSubresources, XtGetApplicationResources \- obtain subresources or application resources
.SH SYNTAX
void XtGetSubresources(\f2w\fP, \f2base\fP, \f2name\fP, \f2class\fP, \
\f2resources\fP, \f2num_resources\fP, \f2args\fP, \f2num_args\fP)
.br
      Widget \f2w\fP;
.br
      XtPointer \f2base\fP;
.br
      String \f2name\fP;
.br
      String \f2class\fP;
.br
      XtResourceList \f2resources\fP;
.br
      Cardinal \f2num_resources\fP;
.br
      ArgList \f2args\fP;
.br
      Cardinal \f2num_args\fP;
.LP
void XtGetApplicationResources(\f2w\fP, \f2base\fP, \f2resources\fP, \
\f2num_resources\fP, \f2args\fP, \f2num_args\fP)
.br
      Widget \f2w\fP;
.br
      XtPointer \f2base\fP;
.br
      XtResourceList \f2resources\fP;
.br
      Cardinal \f2num_resources\fP;
.br
      ArgList \f2args\fP;
.br
      Cardinal \f2num_args\fP;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.ds Al to override resources obtained from the resource database
.IP \f2args\fP 1i
Specifies the argument list \*(Al.
.ds Ba written
.IP \f2base\fP 1i
Specifies the base address of the subpart data structure where the resources
should be \*(Ba.
.IP \f2class\fP 1i
Specifies the class of the subpart.
.IP \f2name\fP 1i
Specifies the name of the subpart.
.IP \f2num_args\fP 1i
Specifies the number of arguments in the argument list.
.IP \f2num_resources\fP 1i
Specifies the number of resources in the resource list.
.IP \f2resources\fP 1i
Specifies the resource list for the subpart.
.ds Wi that wants resources for a subpart \
or that identifies the resource database to search
.IP \f2w\fP 1i
Specifies the widget \*(Wi.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN XtGetSubresources
function constructs a name/class list from the application name/class,
the name/classes of all its ancestors, and the widget itself.
Then, it appends to this list the name/class pair passed in.
The resources are fetched from the argument list, the resource database,
or the default values in the resource list.
Then, they are copied into the subpart record.
If args is NULL,
num_args must be zero.
However, if num_args is zero,
the argument list is not referenced.
.LP
The
.PN XtGetApplicationResources
function first uses the passed widget,
which is usually an application shell,
to construct a resource name and class list,
Then, it retrieves the resources from the argument list,
the resource database, or the resource list default values.
After adding base to each address,
.PN XtGetApplicationResources
copies the resources into the address given in the resource list.
If args is NULL,
num_args must be zero.
However, if num_args is zero,
the argument list is not referenced.
The portable way to specify application resources is to declare them
as members of a structure and pass the address of the structure 
as the base argument.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtGetResourceList(3Xt)
.br
\f2\*(xT\fP
.br
\f2\*(xL\fP
.EQ
delim off
.EN
