.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XtManageChildren.3Xt,v $ $Revision: 1.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/05/03 16:52:42 $
.\" 
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtMake-Geometry-Request XtQuery-Geometry wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .2i 2i
.ta .2i 2i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.ny0
.TH XtManageChildren 3Xt "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
XtManageChildren, XtManageChild, XtUnmanageChildren, XtUnmanageChild \- manage and unmanage children
.SH SYNTAX
typedef Widget *WidgetList;
.sp
void XtManageChildren(\f2children\fP, \f2num_children\fP)
.br
      WidgetList \f2children\fP;
.br
      Cardinal \f2num_children\fP;
.LP
void XtManageChild(\f2child\fP)
.br
      Widget \f2child\fP;
.LP
void XtUnmanageChildren(\f2children\fP, \f2num_children\fP)
.br
      WidgetList \f2children\fP;
.br
      Cardinal \f2num_children\fP;
.LP
void XtUnmanageChild(\f2child\fP)
.br
      Widget \f2child\fP;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \f2child\fP 1i
Specifies the child.
.IP \f2children\fP 1i
Specifies a list of child widgets.
.IP \f2num_children\fP 1i
Specifies the number of children.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN XtManageChildren
function performs the following:
.IP \(bu 5
Issues an error if the children do not all have the same parent or
if the parent is not a subclass of 
.PN compositeWidgetClass .
.IP \(bu 5
Returns immediately if the common parent is being destroyed;
otherwise, for each unique child on the list,
.PN XtManageChildren
ignores the child if it already is managed or is being destroyed
and marks it if not.
.IP \(bu 5
If the parent is realized and after all children have been marked,
it makes some of the newly managed children viewable:
.RS
.IP \- 5
Calls the change_managed routine of the widgets' parent.
.IP \- 5
Calls
.PN XtRealizeWidget
on each previously unmanaged child that is unrealized.
.IP \- 5
Maps each previously unmanaged child that has map_when_managed 
.PN True .
.RE
.LP
Managing children is independent of the ordering of children and
independent of creating and deleting children.
The layout routine of the parent
should consider children whose managed field is
.PN True 
and should ignore all other children.
Note that some composite widgets, especially fixed boxes, call
.PN XtManageChild
from their insert_child procedure.
.LP
If the parent widget is realized,
its change_managed procedure is called to notify it
that its set of managed children has changed.
The parent can reposition and resize any of its children.
It moves each child as needed by calling 
.PN XtMoveWidget ,
which first updates the x and y fields and then calls
.PN XMoveWindow
if the widget is realized.
.LP
The
.PN XtManageChild
function constructs a
.PN WidgetList
of length one and calls
.PN XtManageChildren .
.LP
The
.PN XtUnmanageChildren
function performs the following:
.IP \(bu 5
Issues an error if the children do not all have the same parent
or if the parent is not a subclass of 
.PN compositeWidgetClass .
.IP \(bu 5
Returns immediately if the common parent is being destroyed;
otherwise, for each unique child on the list, 
.PN XtUnmanageChildren
performs the following:
.RS
.IP \- 5
Ignores the child if it already is unmanaged or is being destroyed
and marks it if not.
.IP \- 5
If the child is realized,
it makes it nonvisible by unmapping it.
.RE
.IP \(bu 5
Calls the change_managed routine of the widgets' parent
after all children have been marked
if the parent is realized.
.LP
.PN XtUnmanageChildren
does not destroy the children widgets.
Removing widgets from a parent's managed set is often a temporary banishment,
and, some time later, you may manage the children again.
.LP
The
.PN XtUnmanageChild
function constructs a widget list
of length one and calls
.PN XtUnmanageChildren .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtMapWidget(3Xt),
XtRealizeWidget(3Xt)
.br
\f2\*(xT\fP
.br
\f2\*(xL\fP
.EQ
delim off
.EN
