.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XtMakeGeometryRequest.3Xt,v $ $Revision: 1.2.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/03 22:09:54 $
.\" 
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtMake-Geometry-Request XtQuery-Geometry wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .2i 2i
.ta .2i 2i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.ny0
.TH XtMakeGeometryRequest 3Xt "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
XtMakeGeometryRequest, XtMakeResizeRequest \- make geometry manager request
.SH SYNTAX
XtGeometryResult XtMakeGeometryRequest(\f2w\fP, \f2request\fP, \
\f2reply_return\fP)
.br
      Widget \f2w\fP;
.br
      XtWidgetGeometry *\f2request\fP;
.br
      XtWidgetGeometry *\f2reply_return\fP;
.LP
XtGeometryResult XtMakeResizeRequest(\f2w\fP, \f2width\fP, \f2height\fP, \
\f2width_return\fP, \f2height_return\fP)
.br
      Widget \f2w\fP;
.br
      Dimension \f2width\fP, \f2height\fP;
.br
      Dimension *\f2width_return\fP, *\f2height_return\fP
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \f2reply_return\fP 1i
Returns the allowed widget size or may be NULL
if the requesting widget is not interested in handling
.PN XtGeometryAlmost .
.IP \f2request\fP 1i
Specifies the desired widget geometry (size, position, border width,
and stacking order).
.ds Wi that is making the request
.IP \f2w\fP 1i
Specifies the widget \*(Wi.
.IP \f2width_return\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \f2height_return\fP 1i
Return the allowed widget width and height.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Depending on the condition,
.PN XtMakeGeometryRequest
performs the following:
.IP \(bu 5
If the widget is unmanaged or the widget's parent is not realized,
it makes the changes and returns
.PN XtGeometryYes .
.IP \(bu 5
If the parent is not a subclass of
.PN compositeWidgetClass 
or the parent's geometry_manager is NULL,
it issues an error.
.IP \(bu 5
If the widget's being_destroyed field is 
.PN True ,
it returns
.PN XtGeometryNo .
.IP \(bu 5
If the widget x, y, width, height and border_width fields are
all equal to the requested values,
it returns
.PN XtGeometryYes ;
otherwise, it calls the parent's geometry_manager procedure 
with the given parameters.
.IP \(bu 5
If the parent's geometry manager returns
.PN XtGeometryYes
and if
.PN XtCWQueryOnly
is not set in the request_mode
and if the widget is realized,
.PN XtMakeGeometryRequest
calls the 
.PN XConfigureWindow
Xlib function to reconfigure the widget's window (set its size, location, 
and stacking order as appropriate).
.IP \(bu 5
If the geometry manager returns
.PN XtGeometryDone ,
the change has been approved and actually has been done.
In this case,
.PN XtMakeGeometryRequest
does no configuring and returns 
.PN XtGeometryYes .
.PN XtMakeGeometryRequest
never returns
.PN XtGeometryDone .
.LP
Otherwise,
.PN XtMakeGeometryRequest
returns the resulting value from the parent's geometry manager.
.LP
Children of primitive widgets are always unmanaged; thus,
.PN XtMakeGeometryRequest
always returns
.PN XtGeometryYes
when called by a child of a primitive widget.
.LP
The
.PN XtMakeResizeRequest
function, a simple interface to
.PN XtMakeGeometryRequest ,
creates a
.PN XtWidgetGeometry
structure and specifies that width and height should change.
The geometry manager is free to modify any of the other window attributes
(position or stacking order) to satisfy the resize request.
If the return value is
.PN XtGeometryAlmost ,
width_return and height_return contain a compromise width and height.
If these are acceptable,
the widget should immediately make an
.PN XtMakeResizeRequest
and request that the compromise width and height be applied.
If the widget is not interested in
.PN XtGeometryAlmost
replies, 
it can pass NULL for width_return and height_return.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtConfigureWidget(3Xt),
XtQueryGeometry(3Xt)
.br
\f2\*(xT\fP
.br
\f2\*(xL\fP
.EQ
delim off
.EN
