.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XtOwnSelection.3Xt,v $ $Revision: 1.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/05/03 16:53:21 $
.\" 
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtMake-Geometry-Request XtQuery-Geometry wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .2i 2i
.ta .2i 2i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.ny0
.TH XtOwnSelection 3Xt "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
XtOwnSelection, XtDisownSelection \- set selection owner
.SH SYNTAX
Boolean XtOwnSelection(\f2w\fP, \f2selection\fP, \f2time\fP, \
\f2convert_proc\fP, \f2lose_selection\fP, \f2done_proc\fP)
.br
      Widget \f2w\fP;
.br
      Atom \f2selection\fP;
.br
      Time \f2time\fP;
.br
      XtConvertSelectionProc \f2convert_proc\fP;
.br
      XtLoseSelectionProc \f2lose_selection\fP;
.br
      XtSelectionDoneProc \f2done_proc\fP;
.LP
void XtDisownSelection(\f2w\fP, \f2selection\fP, \f2time\fP)
.br
      Widget \f2w\fP;
.br
      Atom \f2selection\fP;
.br
      Time \f2time\fP;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \f2convert_proc\fP 1i
Specifies the procedure that is to be called whenever someone requests the 
current value of the selection.
.IP \f2done_proc\fP 1i
Specifies the procedure that is called 
after the requestor has received the selection or NULL if the owner is not
interested in being called back.
.IP \f2lose_selection\fP 1i
Specifies the procedure that is to be called whenever the widget has 
lost selection ownership or NULL if the owner is not interested in being 
called back.
.IP \f2selection\fP 1i
Specifies an atom that describes the type of the selection (for example,
.PN XA_PRIMARY , 
.PN XA_SECONDARY , 
or
.PN XA_CLIPBOARD ).
.ds Ti ownership should commence or is to be relinquished
.IP \f2time\fP 1i
Specifies the timestamp that indicates when the selection \*(Ti.
.ds Wi that wishes to become the owner or to relinquish ownership
.IP \f2w\fP 1i
Specifies the widget \*(Wi.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN XtOwnSelection
function informs the \*(xI selection mechanism that a
widget believes it owns a selection.
It returns 
.PN True 
if the widget has successfully become the owner and 
.PN False
otherwise.
The widget may fail to become the owner if some other widget 
has asserted ownership at a time later than this widget.
Note that widgets can lose selection ownership either 
because someone else asserted later ownership of the selection 
or because the widget voluntarily gave up ownership of the selection.
Also note that the lose_selection procedure is not called 
if the widget fails to obtain selection ownership in the first place.
.LP
The
.PN XtDisownSelection
function informs the \*(xI selection mechanism that
the specified widget is to lose ownership of the selection.
If the widget does not currently own the selection either 
because it lost the selection 
or because it never had the selection to begin with,
.PN XtDisownSelection
does nothing.
.LP
After a widget has called
.PN XtDisownSelection ,
its convert procedure is not called even if a request arrives later 
with a timestamp during the period that this widget owned the selection.
However, its done procedure will be called if a conversion that started 
before the call to
.PN XtDisownSelection
finishes after the call to
.PN XtDisownSelection .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtAppGetSelectionTimeout(3Xt),
XtGetSelectionValue(3Xt)
.br
\f2\*(xT\fP
.br
\f2\*(xL\fP
.EQ
delim off
.EN
