.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XtRealizeWidget.3Xt,v $ $Revision: 1.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/05/03 16:54:30 $
.\" 
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtMake-Geometry-Request XtQuery-Geometry wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .2i 2i
.ta .2i 2i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.ny0
.TH XtRealizeWidget 3Xt "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
XtRealizeWidget, XtIsRealized, XtUnrealizeWidget \- realize and unrealize widgets
.SH SYNTAX
void XtRealizeWidget(\f2w\fP)
.br
      Widget \f2w\fP;
.LP
Boolean XtIsRealized(\f2w\fP)
.br
      Widget \f2w\fP;
.LP
void XtUnrealizeWidget(\f2w\fP)
.br
      Widget \f2w\fP;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \f2w\fP 1i
Specifies the widget.
.SH DESCRIPTION
If the widget is already realized,
.PN XtRealizeWidget
simply returns. 
Otherwise, it performs the following:
.IP \(bu 5
Binds all action names in the widget's
translation table to procedures (see Section 10.1.2).
.IP \(bu 5
Makes a post-order traversal of the widget tree rooted
at the specified widget and calls the change_managed procedure
of each composite widget that has one or more managed children.
.IP \(bu 5
Constructs an
.PN XSetWindowAttributes
structure filled in with information derived from the 
.PN Core 
widget fields and calls the realize procedure for the widget,
which adds any widget-specific attributes and creates the X window.
.IP \(bu 5
If the widget is
not a subclass of 
.PN compositeWidgetClass ,
.PN XtRealizeWidget
returns; otherwise, it continues and performs the following:
.RS
.IP \- 5
Descends recursively to each of the widget's
managed children and calls the realize procedures.
Primitive widgets that instantiate children are responsible for realizing
those children themselves.
.IP \- 5
Maps all of the managed children windows that have mapped_when_managed 
.PN True .
(If a widget is managed but mapped_when_managed is 
.PN False , 
the widget is allocated visual space but is not displayed.
Some people seem to like this to indicate certain states.)
.RE
.LP
If the widget is a top-level shell widget (that is, it has no parent), and
mapped_when_managed is 
.PN True , 
.PN XtRealizeWidget
maps the widget window.
.LP
The
.PN XtIsRealized
function returns 
.PN True 
if the widget has been realized,
that is, if the widget has a nonzero X window ID.
.LP
Some widget procedures (for example, set_values) might wish to
operate differently
after the widget has been realized.
.LP
The
.PN XtUnrealizeWidget
function destroys the windows of an existing widget and all of its
children (recursively down the widget tree).
To recreate the windows at a later time,
call
.PN XtRealizeWidget
again.
If the widget was managed, 
it will be unmanaged automatically before its window is freed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtManageChildren(3Xt)
.br
\f2\*(xT\fP
.br
\f2\*(xL\fP
.EQ
delim off
.EN
