.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: XtSetSensitive.3Xt,v $ $Revision: 1.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/05/03 16:55:08 $
.\" 
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtMake-Geometry-Request XtQuery-Geometry wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .2i 2i
.ta .2i 2i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.ny0
.TH XtSetSensitive 3Xt "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
XtSetSensitive, XtIsSensitive \- set and check a widget's sensitivity state
.SH SYNTAX
void XtSetSensitive(\f2w\fP, \f2sensitive\fP)
.br
      Widget \f2w\fP;
.br
      Boolean \f2sensitive\fP;
.LP
Boolean XtIsSensitive(\f2w\fP)
.br
     Widget \f2w\fP;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \f2sensitive\fP 1i
Specifies a Boolean value that indicates whether the widget should receive 
keyboard and pointer events.
.IP \f2w\fP 1i
Specifies the widget.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN XtSetSensitive
function first calls
.PN XtSetValues
on the current widget with an argument list specifying that the
sensitive field should change to the new value.
It then recursively propagates the new value
down the managed children tree by calling
.PN XtSetValues
on each child to set the ancestor_sensitive to the new value if the new
values for sensitive and the child's ancestor_sensitive are not the same.
.LP
.PN XtSetSensitive
calls
.PN XtSetValues
to change sensitive and ancestor_sensitive.
Therefore, when one of these changes,
the widget's set_values procedure should
take whatever display actions are needed
(for example, greying out or stippling the widget).
.LP
.PN XtSetSensitive
maintains the invariant that if parent has either sensitive 
or ancestor_sensitive 
.PN False ,
then all children have ancestor_sensitive 
.PN False .
.LP
The
.PN XtIsSensitive
function returns 
.PN True 
or 
.PN False 
to indicate whether or not user input events are being dispatched.
If both core.sensitive and core.ancestor_sensitive are 
.PN True ,
.PN XtIsSensitive
returns 
.PN True ;
otherwise, it returns 
.PN False .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
\f2\*(xT\fP
.br
\f2\*(xL\fP
.EQ
delim off
.EN
