.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: yppasswd.3,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 13:09:37 $
.\"
.TH yppasswd 3
.SH NAME
yppasswd \- update user password in Network Information Service (NIS) password map.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
.B #include <rpcsvc/yppasswd.h>
.PP
.B yppasswd(\f2oldpass, newpw\fP)
.B char \f2*oldpass\fP;
.B struct passwd \f2*newpw\fP;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "yppasswd subroutine"
.iX "password" "updating in NIS map"
The \*Lyppasswd\*O routine uses Remote Procedure Call (RPC) and External Data
Representation (XDR) routines to update a user password in
an Network Information Service (NIS) password map.  The RPC
and XDR elements that are used are listed below under the RPC INFO heading.
.PP
If
\*Voldpass\*O
is indeed the old user password,
this routine replaces the password entry with
\*Vnewpw.\*O
It returns 0 if successful.
.SS RPC Information
.nf
program number:
 YPPASSWDPROG
xdr routines:
 xdr_ppasswd(xdrs, yp)
 XDR *xdrs;
 struct yppasswd *yp;
 xdr_yppasswd(xdrs, pw)
 XDR *xdrs;
 struct passwd *pw;
procs:
 YPPASSWDPROC_UPDATE
 Takes \f2struct yppasswd\fP as argument, returns integer.
 Same behavior as \f2yppasswd()\fP wrapper.
 Uses UNIX authentication.
versions:
 YPPASSWDVERS_ORIG
structures:
 struct yppasswd {
 char *oldpass; /* old (unencrypted) password */
 struct passwd newpw; /* new pw structure */
 };
.fi
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lyppasswd\*O(1), \*Lyppasswdd\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
