Help for Set Default Device Control Parameters 

This window lets you set the defaults that control terminal login 
parameters.  A terminal uses these defaults unless specifically overridden by 
settings in the Modify Terminal window.  When certain login parameters are 
exceeded, the software implicitly locks the terminal.  

Enter a number in each text input field.  A zero (0) means that no value is 
set.  For example, if you set the Maximum # of Unsuccessful Logins to 0, no 
value is set for this option and users can make an unlimited number of 
unsuccessful login attempts on that terminal.  Use the mouse or the Tab and 
Shift-Tab keys to move between text input fields.  

Maximum # of Unsuccessful Logins (Terminal) lets you set the number of 
unsuccessful logins allowed before the terminal is locked.  A greater value 
gives a person more tries at guessing a password.  Enter any number from 0 to 
999.   

The Login Timeout (seconds) is the number of seconds allowed to enter the 
password once the user name has been entered.  If this time is exceeded then 
a login fails.  A value of 0 means no value is set.  

The Delay between Unsuccessful Logins (seconds) is the number of seconds that 
elapse between the time a login attempt fails and the time the login prompt 
reappears.  

In the Lock Terminal selection boxes, click on the button to select the 
item.  When you do, the button is highlighted, indicating that the item is 
selected.  To deselect it, click on the highlighted button. 

Lock Terminal lets you select that all terminals are automatically locked.  
Each terminal remains locked until you override the system default for a 
particular terminal or until you explicitly unlock the terminal in Unlock 
Terminal.  

You may cancel the window at any time by selecting the "Cancel" button.  
Selecting the "OK" button brings up a confirmation box so that you can 
confirm your actions.  
