.\"
.\" *****************************************************************
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *    Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   All Rights Reserved.  Unpublished rights  reserved  under   *
.\" *   the copyright laws of the United States.                    *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   The software contained on this media  is  proprietary  to   *
.\" *   and  embodies  the  confidential  technology  of  Digital   *
.\" *   Equipment Corporation.  Possession, use,  duplication  or   *
.\" *   dissemination of the software and media is authorized only  *
.\" *   pursuant to a valid written license from Digital Equipment  *
.\" *   Corporation.                                                *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *   RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND   Use, duplication, or disclosure  *
.\" *   by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions  as  set  *
.\" *   forth in Subparagraph (c)(1)(ii)  of  DFARS  252.227-7013,  *
.\" *   or  in  FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.                       *
.\" *                                                               *
.\" *****************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" $NCDId: @(#)fsinfo.man,v 4.2 1991/06/27 18:31:36 lemke Exp $
.TH FSINFO 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
fsinfo \- font server information utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "fsinfo"
[\-server \fIservername\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Fsinfo
is a utility for displaying information about an X font server.  It is used to 
examine the
capabilities of a server, the predefined values for various parameters used
in communicating between clients and the server, and the font catalogues
and alternate servers that are available.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
The following shows a sample produced by
.I fsinfo.
.PP
.nf
name of server:	hansen:7000
version number:	1
vendor string:	Font Server Prototype
vendor release number:	17
maximum request size:	16384 longwords (65536 bytes)
number of catalogues:	1
	all
Number of alternate servers: 2
    #0	hansen:7001
    #1	hansen:7002
number of extensions:	0
.fi

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B FONTSERVER
To get the default fontserver.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fs(1), fslsfonts(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1991, Network Computing Devices, Inc
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Dave Lemke, Network Computing Devices, Inc
