.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: clone.7,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/04/22 12:30:30 $
.\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH clone 7
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lclone\*O \- Opens a major and minor device pair on a STREAMS driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "STREAMS" "clone driver"
.iX "clone driver"
.iX "drivers" "clone(7)"
The \*Lclone\*O driver is a "pass through" device driver that allows
other drivers to select unique minor device numbers on each open.
In effect, the driver passes an open operation through to the other driver.
This mechanism allows for multiple instantiations of a driver through a single
file system node.
.PP
The \*Vname\*O parameter specifies the name of the special device driver
to be opened.
The \*Lclone\*O driver calls the open routine of the other driver with flags
that specify a clone open, and sets up the new instantiation using
the returned major/minor pair.
The new major number is the minor number of the clonable entry,
and the minor number has been dynamically selected.
.PP
If the \*Lclone driver\*O has an invalid minor number, or if the driver
indicated is not a clonable driver, an error occurs.
.PP
The master devices for pseudoterminals are examples of clonable drivers
(see the \*Lpty\*O reference page).
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lfstat(2)\*O,
\*Lopen(2)\*O.
.PP
Interfaces:
\*Lpty(7)\*O.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
