.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dc.7,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 13:28:59 $
.\"
.TH dc 7
.SH NAME
\*Ldc\*O \- serial line/mouse/keyboard
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lcontroller   dc0   at ibus0   slot 0   vector dcintr\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "serial line controller" "dc"
.iX "dc serial line controller"
The \*Ldc\*O serial line controller provides DECstation 2100,
DECstation 3100, DECstation 5000, and DECstation 5100 computer systems
with keyboard, mouse, and serial communications interfaces. The serial
communications interfaces on the DECstation 2100 and DECstation 3100
provide partial modem control. The serial communications
interfaces on the DECstation 5000 provide full modem control.
The device special file \*L/dev/tty01\*O on a DECstation 5100
provides full modem control,
while the remaining ports provide no modem control at all.
All serial communications interfaces operate at baud rates from B50 to
B9600, excluding B200.
.PP
The \*Ldc\*O ports are used as follows:
...\"from TP 10"
.VL
.LI "\*LPort\*O"
\*LUsage\*O
...\"from TP 10"
.LI "0"
Graphics device keyboard at 4800 BPS
.LI "1"
Mouse or tablet at 4800 BPS
.LI "2"
Communications port 1 (w/modem control)/local terminal
.LI "3"
Communications port 2 (w/modem control)/local terminal
.LE
.PP
On all systems except the DECstation 5100, serial port 2 is used for the
system console port in server (that is, non-graphics) configurations.
On DECstation 5100s, the
serial port labeled 3 on the back of the system is always the
system console port.  The serial system console port always
operates at 9600 BPS, 8-bits, no parity; modem control is
not supported.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Data communications equipment attached to the console serial port in
server configurations must be set to 9600 BPS, 8-bits, no parity. The
\*Lscc\*O driver enforces this restriction.
.SH FILES
.PP
...\"from TP 20"
.VL
.LI "/dev/console"
console terminal
...\"from TP 20"
.LI "/dev/tty00"
local terminal
...\"from TP 20"
.LI "/dev/tty01"
local terminal
...\"from TP 20"
.LI "/dev/tty02"
local terminal
(DECstation 5100 only)
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.\" \*Lttys\*O(4),
\*Lconsole\*O(7),
\*Ldevio\*O(7), \*Ltty\*O(7),
\*LMAKEDEV\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
