.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dlb.7,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/19 19:49:20 $
.\"
.TH dlb 7
.SH NAME
dlb, dlpi - STREAMS pseudodevice driver for bridging BSD Drivers to STREAMS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L#include <sys/dlpihdr.h>
.br
\*L#include <fcntl.h>
.PP
\*Lfd = open ("/dev/streams/dlb", O_RDWR, 0);\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "dlb pseudodevice driver"
.iX "STREAMS pseudodevice driver" "dlb"
.PP
The \*Ldlb\*O STREAMS pseudodevice driver provides a communication
path between BSD-style device drivers and STREAMS protocol stacks.
The \*Ldlb\*O STREAMS pseudodevice driver is the Stream end in a Stream
that communicates with BSD-based device drivers.
.PP
When the \*L/dev/streams/dlb\*O character device is open, a Stream is
constructed between a Stream head and the \*Ldlb\*O pseudodevice driver.
After the Stream that is intended to communicate with the BSD-based driver
or drivers is created, the protocol module or modules can be pushed
onto it.
.PP
DEC OSF/1
supports a subset of the Data Link Provider Interface
(DLPI) connectionless mode of communication.
The \*Lattach\*O DLPI primitive is required
to associate a particular physical
point of attachment (PPA) with a Stream in 
DEC OSF/1's 
implementation of the style 2 provider.
.PP
On the write side, the \*Ldlb\*O pseudodevice driver translates
connectionless style 2 DLPI messages to the appropriate BSD \*Lifnet\*O
interface messages.  On the read side, the user-bound Service Access
Point (SAP) messages received
from a selected PPA over BSD based driver or drivers are sent upstream.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
\*ENetwork Programmer's Guide\*O
.br
.eM "Data Link Provider Interface"
specification in \*L/usr/share/doclib/dlpi/dlpi.ps\*O
.\"\*E***THIS IS NOT A VALID TAG***\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
