.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: fza.7,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 23:37:44 $
.\" 
.TH fza 7
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lfza\*O \- DEFZA FDDI Network Interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Ldevice fza0 at * vector fzaintr\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "fza interface" "DEFZA FDDI Network interface"
.iX "DEFZA FDDI Network interface"
.iX "FDDI interface" "DEFZA FDDI Network interface"
.PP
The \*Lfza\*O interface is a high speed TURBOchannel bus
to a 100 Mbit/second Fiber Distributed Data Interface (FDDI)
timed token ring network adapter.  The \*Lfza\*O interface allows
the host system to be an FDDI single attachment station.
.PP
The host's Internet address is specified at boot time with
an SIOCSIFADDR ioctl.
The \*Lfza\*O interface employs the address resolution protocol
described in \*Larp\*O(7)
to map dynamically between Internet and FDDI addresses on the local
network.
.PP
The Maximum Transmit Unit (MTU) size for \*Lfza\*O
interface is 4352 bytes, which is substantially larger that
the 1500 bytes maximum packet size of the Ethernet interfaces.
The \*Lfza\*O
interface does not support the BSD trailer encapsulation.
.PP
The SIOCRPHYSADDR ioctl can be used to read the physical
address of the DEFZA adapter. The physical address of the
DEFZA adapter cannot be changed.
.PP
The SIOCADDMULTI and SIOCDELMULTI ioctls can be used to add or delete
multicast addresses.
The DEFZA supports up to 64 multicast addresses. The argument to the
latter ioctls is a pointer to an \*Lifreq\*O structure found in
\*L<net/if.h>\*O.
.PP
The SIOCRDCTRS ioctl can be used to read the FDDI driver counters.
The DEFZA adapter status and characteristics can also be read
through this
ioctl by providing an FDDI_STATUS flag.  The argument to this ioctl
is a pointer to a counter or status structure, \*Lctrreq\*O,
found in \*L<net/if.h>\*O.
.PP
The SIOCENABLBACK and SIOCDISABLBACK ioctls can be used to enable
and disable the interface loopback mode, respectively.
.PP
The SIOCEEUPDATE ioctl can be used to update the adapter's firmware.
.PP
The SIOCIFRESET ioctl can be used to reset the adapter.
.PP
Some of the FDDI link characteristics can be changed by the
SIOCIFSETCHAR
ioctl. These characteristics include Request Token Rotation Time
(T_REQ), Valid Transmission Time, Link Error Monitor (LEM) Threshold,
Restricted Token Timeout, and Ring Purger Enable. The latter two
characteristics are supported by the firmware revision V1.2 and higher.
The T_REQ, Valid Transmission Time, and Restricted Token Timeout
value are based on 80 ns units. The setable FDDI attributes are
shown in the following table.
.PP
.TS
tab(~);
l l l
l l l.
Attribute Name~Range~Default Value
.sp
Requested Token Rotation Time~4.0ms to 167.77208ms~8.0ms
Valid Transmission Time~2.35ms to 5.2224ms~2.621ms
Restricted Token Timeout~0ms to 10000ms~1000ms
LEM Threshold~5 to 8~8
Ring Purger Enable~True or False~True
.TE
.PP
For a LEM Threshold attribute value of \f2N\fP, the threshold value is
10 of power \-\f2N\fP.  The Ring Purger can be disabled by setting
the Ring Purger Enable field value to zero. The unchanged
characteristics need to be filled by a -1 or 0xffffffff value.
The argument to this ioctl is a pointer to an \*Lifchar\*O
structure found in \*L<net/if.h>\*O.
To set the FDDI link characteristics, use the following form:
.PP
.iS
ioctl(\*Vs\*O, SIOCIFSETCHAR, \*Vifchar\*O)

struct  ifchar  *\*Lifchar\*O;
.iE
.PP
The following example changes the Restricted Token Timeout value
to 16ms and disables the Ring Purger mode:
.PP
.oS
int s ;
struct ifchar ifchar;

        if((s = socket( AF_INET, SOCK_DGRAM, 0 )) < 0 )
                exit(1);

        strcpy(&ifchar.ifc_name[0],"fza0");

        ifchar.ifc_treq = 200000 ;     /* 200000 * 80 ns = 16 ms */
        ifchar.ifc_rtoken = -1;        /* unchanged */
        ifchar.ifc_tvx = -1;           /* unchanged */
        ifchar.ifc_lem = -1;           /* unchanged */
        ifchar.ifc_ring_purger = 0 ;   /* disable the ring purger */

        if(ioctl( s, SIOCIFSETCHAR, &ifchar) < 0 )
                exit(1);
.oE
.PP
The FDDI link characteristics can be displayed by using the
following command:
.PP
.iS
netstat -I \*Vinterface\*O -s
.iE
.PP
To obtain the physical address of the adapter, use the SIOCRPHYSADDR
ioctl as in the following program example:
.oS
#include <stdio.h>              /* standard I/O */
#include <errno.h>              /* error numbers */
#include <sys/socket.h>         /* socket definitions */
#include <sys/ioctl.h>          /* ioctls */
#include <net/if.h>             /* generic interface structures */

main()
{
  int s,i;
  static   struct  ifdevea  devea;
  /* Get a socket */
  s = socket(AF_INET,SOCK_DGRAM,0);
  if (s < 0) {
     perror("socket");
     exit(1);
  }
  strcpy(devea.ifr_name,"fza0");
  if (ioctl(s,SIOCRPHYSADDR,&devea) < 0) {
     perror(&devea.ifr_name[0]);
     exit(1);
  }
  printf(Address is ");
  for (i = 0, i < 6, i++)
     printf("%X ", devea.default_pa[1] & 0xff);
  printf("\n");
  close(s);
}
.oE
.PP
To reset the adapter, use the SIOCIFRESET ioctl as in the following program
example:
.oS
#include <stdio.h>              /* standard I/O */
#include <errno.h>              /* error numbers */
#include <sys/socket.h>         /* socket definitions */
#include <sys/ioctl.h>          /* ioctls */
#include <net/if.h>             /* generic interface structures */

main()
{
  int s;
  struct  ifreq  data;
  /* Get a socket */
  s = socket(AF_INET,SOCK_DGRAM,0);
  if (s < 0) {
     perror("socket");
     exit(1);
  }
  strcpy(data.ifr,"fza0");
  if (ioctl(s,SIOCIFRESET,&data) < 0) {
     perror("SIOCIFRESET:");
     exit(1);
  }
  close(s);
}
.oE
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Diagnostic error messages contain information provided by the
\*Lfza\*O driver. For example:
.PP
.oS
fza%d: fzaprobe selftest failed
.oE
.PP
The DEFZA adapter did not pass the power-up selftest during
autoconfiguration.
.PP
.oS
fza%d: port init failed
.oE
.PP
The DEFZA adapter cannot be initialized.
.PP
.oS
fza%d: port in the Halt State -> CNS hardware fault
.oE
.PP
The DEFZA adapter went to the Halt state because of an adapter firmware
fault.
.PP
.oS
fza%d: LINK unavailable
.oE
.PP
The network link went down which means than the station is not on
the FDDI ring.
.PP
.oS
fza%d: Ring Init Received
.oE
.PP
A Ring Initialization unsolicited event has been received from
the fza%d interface.
.PP
.oS
fza%d: Invalid T_REQ value
.oE
.PP
An invalid T_REQ value was discovered by the adapter while user was
trying to change the FDDI link characteristics.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lfddi_config\*O(1), \*Lnetstat\*O(1), \*Larp\*O(7), \*Linet\*O(7)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
