.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ifnet.7,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 13:29:28 $
.\"
.TH ifnet 7
.SH NAME
\*Lifnet\*O - STREAMS ifnet module for bridging STREAMS device drivers  to sockets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L#include <sys/stropts.h>
.nL
\*L#define  PIFNET_IOCTL_UNIT 1236
.PP
\*Lint ioctl(
.nL
        type \*Vfildes\*L,
.nL
        type \*Vcommand\*L,
.nL
        type \*Varg \*L);
.PP
\*Lint fildes, command;\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "ifnet module"
.PP
\*Lifnet\*O is a STREAMS-based module that provides a bridge between
STREAMS-based
device drivers written to the Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI) and
sockets.  By using \*Lifnet\*O, STREAMS-based DLPI device
drivers can work with TCP/IP, or any other networking protocols, implemented
using sockets.
.PP
An application pushes the \*Lifnet\*O module onto a Stream opened to the device
driver.  The application must then send an I_STR ioctl with a command of
IFNET_IOCTL_UNIT to notify \*Lifnet\*O of the driver's unit number.
It must then send a DL_BIND_REQ downstream to bind the
appropriate protocol. 
.\" See the Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI) specification for semantics
.PP
Once the Stream or Streams are set up, the application has no work to do but
must stay around to keep the Streams alive.  This can be done with the
\*Lpause\*O(3) function.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example illustrates how to send an I_STR ioctl with a command of
IFNET_IOCTL_UNIT to notify \*Lifnet\*O of the driver's unit number.
.oS
struct strioctl str;
int unit;
 \.
 \.
 \.
str.ic_cmd = IFNET_IOCTL_UNIT;
str.ic_dp = &unit;  /* unit number of device */
ioctl(fd, I_STR, &str);
.oE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lpause\*O(3).
.\" WHERE WILL THE DLPI SPEC GO??
.PP
\*ENetwork Programmer's Guide\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
