.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: inet.7,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/07/22 13:46:08 $
.\" 
...\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" 
...\"
...\"
...\" Copyright (c) 1983 The Regents of the University of California.
...\" All rights reserved.
...\" 
...\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
...\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
...\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
...\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
...\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
...\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
...\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
...\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
...\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
...\" specific prior written permission.
...\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
...\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
...\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
...\" 
...\" @(#)inet.4	6.5 (Berkeley) 6/23/90
...\" 
.TH inet 7
.wH .UC 5
.SH NAME
\*Linet\*O \- Internet Protocol family
.iX "Inet" "Internet Protocol family"
.iX "Internet Protocol"
.iX "protocols" "IP"
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/types.h>\*O
.nL
\*L#include <netinet/in.h>\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Internet Protocol family is a collection of protocols
layered atop the
Internet Protocol
(IP) transport layer, and utilizing the Internet address format.
The Internet family provides protocol support for the
SOCK_STREAM, SOCK_DGRAM, and SOCK_RAW socket types; the
SOCK_RAW interface provides access to the IP protocol.
.PP 
Internet addresses are 4-byte quantities, stored in
network standard format (on the VAX and other machines,
these are word and byte
reversed).  The
\*Lnetinet/in.h\*O
include file defines this address
as a discriminated union.
.PP 
Sockets bound to the Internet protocol family utilize
an addressing structure
\*Lsockaddr_in\*O,
whose format is dependent on whether _SOCKADDR_LEN
has been defined prior to including the
\*Lnetinet/in.h\*O
header file.  If _SOCKADDR_LEN is defined, the
\*Lsockaddr_in\*O
structure takes 4.4BSD behavior, with a separate field for specifying
the length of the address;  otherwise, the default
4.3BSD behavior is used.
.PP 
Sockets may be created with the local address INADDR_ANY
to effect wildcard matching on incoming messages.
The address in a
\*Lconnect(\|)\*O
or
\*Lsendto(\|)\*O
call may be given as INADDR_ANY to mean ``this host.''
The distinguished address INADDR_BROADCAST
is allowed as a shorthand for the broadcast address on the primary
network if the first network configured supports broadcast.
.PP 
The Internet protocol family is comprised of
the IP transport protocol, Internet Control
Message Protocol (ICMP), Transmission Control
Protocol (TCP), and User Datagram Protocol (UDP).
TCP is used to support the SOCK_STREAM
abstraction while UDP is used to support the SOCK_DGRAM
abstraction.  A raw interface to IP is available
by creating an Internet socket of type SOCK_RAW.
The ICMP message protocol is accessible from a raw socket.
.PP 
The 32-bit Internet address contains both network and host parts.
It is frequency-encoded; the most-significant bit is clear
in Class A addresses, in which the high-order 8 bits are the network
number.
Class B addresses use the high-order 16 bits as the network field,
and Class C addresses have a 24-bit network part.
Sites with a cluster of local networks and a connection to the DARPA
Internet may chose to use a single network number for the cluster;
this is done by using subnet addressing.
The local (host) portion of the address is further subdivided
into subnet and host parts.
Within a subnet, each subnet appears to be an individual network;
externally, the entire cluster appears to be a single, uniform
network requiring only a single routing entry.
.PP 
Subnet addressing is enabled and examined by the following
\*Lioctl(\|)\*O
commands on a datagram socket in the Internet domain;
they have the same form as the
SIOCSIFADDR command (see the reference page for the
\*Lnetintro\*O
function).
.PP 
...\"from TP 1i"  
.VL 1i
.LI "SIOCSIFNETMASK"
Set interface network mask.
The network mask defines the network part of the address;
if it contains more of the address than the address type would indicate,
then subnets are in use.
...\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "SIOCGIFNETMASK" 
Get interface network mask.
.LE 
.SH NOTES
The Internet protocol support is subject to change as
the Internet protocols develop.  Users should not depend
on details of the current implementation, but rather
the services exported.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lioctl(2),\*O
\*Lsocket(2)\*O
.PP 
Files:
\*Lnetintro(7),\*O
\*Ltcp(7),\*O
\*Ludp(7),\*O
\*Lip(7),\*O
\*Licmp(7)\*O
.PP 
\*(Gn
.PP 
\*ENetwork and Communications Overview\*O
.\" \*(Gc
...\" .PP
...\" \*(Ra
.iX "Inet" "Internet Protocol family"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
