.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: intro.7,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/22 15:00:53 $
.\"
.TH intro 7
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction to special files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "intro(7) keyword"
.\" Removed because it is no longer applicable
.\"The
.\"Section 7 DEC OSF/1 reference pages are
.\"made up of an OSF-supplied component
.\"and a Digital-supplied component.
.\"The title line of an OSF-supplied
.\"reference page carries an "OSF" label while the Digital-supplied
.\"reference pages are labeled "Digital".
.\".PP
.\"When OSF-supplied code operates differently on Digital platforms or
.\"has Digital extensions, information is added to the OSF reference page
.\"and marked as
.\".br
.\"\*L[Digital only\*O].
.\".PP
.\"When needed, technical corrections have been made to the OSF-supplied
.\"reference pages.
.\".PP
The suffixes used on some reference pages are used only to allow reference
pages with the same base name to exist on DEC OSF/1 systems. When used,
suffixes are made up of one to four letters. See the \*Lman\*O(1)
reference page for more information on suffixes.
.PP
Section 7 describes the special files, related driver functions,
and networking support available in the system.
In this part of the manual, the SYNOPSIS heading of
each configurable device gives a sample specification
for use in constructing a system description for the
\*Lconfig\*O(8)
program.
The DIAGNOSTICS heading lists messages that may appear on the console
and in the system error log
file
\*L/usr/adm/syserr/syserr.<hostname>\*O
due to errors in device operation.
.PP
Software support for these devices comes in two forms.
A hardware device may be supported with a character or block
``device driver'',
or it may be used within the networking subsystem and have a
``network interface driver''.
.PP
There are some devices that have fixed input/output space
CSR addresses and
interrupt vector addresses. There are no address switches or jumpers
that need to be set up by the customer or Field Service.
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/dev/*\*O
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LMAKEDEV\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
