.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: kmem.7,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/22 19:44:18 $
.\"
.TH kmem 7
.SH NAME
\*Lkmem\*O \- mapped kernel memory interface
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "mapped kernel memory interface"
The \*Lkmem\*O character special device provides access to mapped kernel memory.
.PP
Byte addresses in \*Lkmem\*O are equivalent to mapped kernel memory addresses.
References to unmapped or user space addresses will return an error. Write
accesses to console or PAL memory or to memory protected against writes will
also return an error.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Because memory is read and written in aligned quadwords (eight contiguous bytes),
writing fewer than all the bytes in an aligned quadword is a read-modify-write
operation that is not protected against writes to the same quadword.
.PP
Device registers are accessed as aligned quadwords through \*Lkmem\*O.
.PP
The \*Lkmem\*O file is not available as a memory mapped file.
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/dev/kmem\*O
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lmem\*O(7)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
