.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: lat.7,v $ $Revision: 1.1.4.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/17 19:41:08 $
.\"
.TH lat 7
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Llat\*O \- Local Area Transport (LAT) support
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "lat pseudoterminal interface"
.iX "Local Area Transport (LAT) interface" "lat pseudoterminal interface"
.PP
LAT is a protocol that provides an efficient means of logically
connecting terminal servers to one or more nodes on the same local area
network (LAN).
.PP
LAT software has the features required for a host to function as a
service node, so requests for connections can be made by server users.
.PP
The software also permits host applications to initiate connections to
server ports, designated as application ports, to access remote devices.
.SS CONFIGURATION
.iX "Local Area Transport (LAT) interface" "configuration"
To configure the LAT support for your machine, you must perform the
following tasks:
.ML
.LI
Kernel configuration
.LI
System setup
.LI
User customization (optional)
.LE
.PP
The following sections provide a brief explanation of how to perform
these tasks. For more information, refer to the guide to
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
and the
\*ESystem Administration\*O.
To do these tasks, you must be logged in as superuser.
.SS Kernel Configuration
To configure the kernel for LAT, you must ensure the system configuration file
contains the LAT option.
.PP
Installing the LAT subset and executing a \*Ldoconfig\*O procedure to build a
kernel without specifying a configuration file, automatically puts the
LAT option (\*Loptions LAT\*O)
in the configuration file created by \*Ldoconfig\*O.
.PP
If you specify a configuration file when you run \*Ldoconfig\*O, you
must ensure that the configuration file contains the LAT option.
.PP
The default configuration file might already contain the LAT option
(\*Loptions LAT\*O) in a line that has been commented out.
In that case, remove the comment symbol (#) from the beginning of the line.
.PP
The default configuration file to edit is \*L/sys/conf/\*VHOSTNAME\*O.
(\*VHOSTNAME\*O is the name of your host processor, in uppercase
letters.)
.PP
If your configuration file does not contain the LAT option, you must
add it before you build the kernel. In that case, edit the configuration
file as follows:
.iS
.sp
   options LAT
.sp
.iE
After you ensure that your configuration file includes the LAT option,
you must build a new kernel. For more information on how
to build the kernel, see the
\*ESystem Administration\*O.
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.RS 5
If the system will be used for a large number of simultaneous LAT
connections, the \*Lmaxusers\*O entry in the \*Lconfig\*O file should be
increased. The number of simultaneous connections possible depends on
system resources. For more information on setting \*Lmaxusers\*O, see
the
\*ESystem Administration\*O.
.sp 6p
.RE
.SS System Setup
You can set up LAT on your system automatically (by using the
\*Llatsetup\*O utility) or manually. It is
recommended that you use the \*Llatsetup\*O utility to set up your system
automatically.
.PP
If you use the \*Llatsetup\*O utility to set up your system automatically,
it performs the following functions:
.ML
.LI
Creates the LAT device special files. The \*Llatsetup\*O utility allows
you to create up to 620 LAT device special files.
.LI
Adds or removes \*Lgetty\*O entries to or from the \*L/etc/inittab\*O file.
.LI
Executes \*Linit q\*O.
.LI
Creates the STREAMS \*L/dev/streams/kinfo\*O file.
.LI
Starts or stops LAT services.
.LI
Enables or disables LAT automatic startup and shutdown.
.LE
.PP
For more information, see \*Llatsetup\*O(8).
.PP
If you want to set up LAT manually, refer to the guide to
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O.
.SS User Customization
You can use the \*Llatcp\*O command to customize LAT on your system.
.PP
If LAT automatic startup and shutdown is enabled, the
\*L/sbin/init.d/lat\*O script starts LAT upon reaching run level 3. By
default, this script contains only the \*Llatcp -s\*O command. When this
command is executed, LAT is started, and if the following parameters
have not been set, they take on the following default values:
.ML
.LI
Node name \(em The default value is the host name.
.LI
Multicast timer \(em The default value is 60 seconds.
.LI
Service name \(em The default value is the host name.
.LI
Service description \(em The default value is ``DEC OSF/1 Version \*VX.X\*O LAT SERVICE.''
.LI
Rating \(em The default is dynamic rating.
.LE
.IP
You can modify the \*L/sbin/init.d/lat\*O script to include \*Llatcp\*O
commands to customize your LAT system. For example, you can define a
particular node name or add additional service names. For more
information on how to customize your system by modifying the
\*L/sbin/init.d/lat\*O script, refer to the guide to
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
and \*Llatcp\*O(8).
.PP
If your system is configured with multiple network adapters, you can
specify that the LAT protocol to run over the multiple adapters,
provided they are connected to different logical networks. If you have
more than one network adapter connected to a logical network, you
should specify that the LAT
protocol runs over only one adapter. (You can do this using a
\*Llatcp\*O command.) You can determine the adapters defined
on your system by using the \*Lnetsetup\*O command.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/dev/lat\*O"
Specifies a LAT device that can be cloned.
.LI "\*L/dev/tty\*VWX\*O"
Specifies LAT terminal devices. (Where \*VW\*O is a numeric and \*VX\*O
is and alphanumeric character from 0 to 9, a lowercase a to z, or an
uppercase A to Z.)
.LI "\*L/dev/streams/kinfo\*O"
Specifies the STREAMS pseudodevice.
.LI "\*L/etc/inittab\*O"
Controls the initialization process.
.LI "\*L/sbin/init.d/lat\*O"
Specifies the LAT startup and shutdown script.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Linit\*O(8), \*Llatcp\*O(8), \*Llatsetup\*O(8),
\*LMAKEDEV\*O(8),
.nL
\*Lnetsetup\*O(8), \*Lrcmgr\*O(8), \*Lstrsetup\*O(8)
.PP
Files: \*Linittab\*O(4)
.PP
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O,
\*ESystem Administration\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
