.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: lo.7,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 11:22:12 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)lo.4	6.5 (Berkeley) 6/23/90
.\" 
.TH lo 7
.SH NAME
\*Llo\*O \- Software loopback network interface
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lpseudo-device loop\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "lo interface"
.iX "loopback network interface"
.iX "interfaces" "loopback"
.iX "networks" "loopback interface"
The
loopback
interface is a software loopback mechanism which is
used for performance analysis, software testing, and/or local
communication.
As with other network interfaces, the loopback interface must have
network addresses assigned for each address family with which it is to be used.
These addresses
may be set or changed with the SIOCSIFADDR ioctl.
The loopback interface should be the last interface configured,
as protocols may use the order of configuration as an indication of priority.
The loopback should never be configured first unless no hardware
interfaces exist.
.SH NOTES
Previous versions of the UNIX system enabled the loopback interface
automatically, using a nonstandard Internet address (127.1).
Use of that address is now discouraged; a reserved host address
for the local network should be used instead.
.SH ERRORS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Llo\*Vn\*L: can't handle af\*Vn\*O"
The interface was handed
a message with addresses formatted in an unsuitable address
family; the packet was dropped.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Files:
\*Lnetintro\*O(7),
\*Linet\*O(7),
\*Lns\*O(7)
.iX "lo interface"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
