.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ns.7,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/27 14:26:29 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)ns.4	1.5 (Berkeley) 6/23/90
.\" 
.TH ns 7
.SH NAME
\*Lns\*O \- Xerox Network Systems protocol family
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Loptions NS
.nL
\*Loptions NSIP
.nL
\*Lpseudo-device ns
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "ns" "Xerox Network Systems protocol family"
.iX "protocols" "NS"
.iX "Xerox Network Systems Protocol"
.wH \&.IX  "ns device"  ""  "\fLns\*O \(em Xerox NS protocol family"
The NS protocol family is a collection of protocols
layered atop the
Internet Datagram Protocol
(IDP) transport layer, and using the Xerox NS address formats.
The NS family provides protocol support for the
SOCK_STREAM, SOCK_DGRAM, SOCK_SEQPACKET, and SOCK_RAW socket types.
The
SOCK_RAW interface is a debugging tool, allowing you to trace all packets
entering (or with toggling kernel variable, additionally leaving) the local
host.
.SS Addressing
The NS addresses are 12-byte quantities, consisting of a
4-byte network number, a 6-byte host number and a 2-byte port number,
all stored in network standard format.
(On the VAX and other machines,
these are word and byte reversed; on a Sun machine, they are not
reversed).  The
\*Lnetns/ns.h\*O
include file
defines the NS address as a structure containing unions (for quicker
comparisons).
.PP
Both the 4.3BSD and 4.4BSD
\*Lsockaddr_ns\*O
structures are supported by DEC OSF/1 .  The default
\*Lsockaddr_ns\*O
structure is the 4.3BSD structure, which is as follows:
.rS
\*Lstruct sockaddr_ns {
.nL
	u_short		sns_family;
.nL
	struct ns_addr	sns_addr;
.nL
	char		sns_zero[2];
.nL
};\*O
.rE
.PP
If the compile-time option
_SOCKADDR_LEN
is defined before the
\*Lnetns/ns.h\*O
header file is included, however, the 4.4BSD
\*Lsockaddr\*O
structure is defined, which is as follows:
.rS
\*Lstruct sockaddr_ns {
.nL
	u_char		sns_len;
.nL
	u_char		sns_family;
.nL
	struct ns_addr	sns_addr;
.nL
	char		sns_zero[2];
.nL
};\*O
.rE
.PP
The
4.4BSD
\*Lsockaddr_in\*O
structure provides for a
\*Lsns_len\*O
field, which contains the total length of the structure.
.PP
The
\*Lns_addr\*O
field is composed as follows:
.rS
\*Lunion ns_host {
.nL
	u_char		c_host[6];
.nL
	u_short		s_host[3];
.nL
};
.nL
.nL
union ns_net {
.nL
	u_char		c_net[4];
.nL
	u_short		s_net[2];
};
.nL
.nL
struct ns_addr {
.nL
	union ns_net	x_net;
.nL
	union ns_host	x_host;
.nL
	u_short	x_port;
.nL
};
.rE
\*OSockets may be created with an address of all zeros to effect
``wildcard'' matching on incoming messages.
The local port address specified in a
\*Lbind\*O(2)
call is restricted to be greater than NSPORT_RESERVED
(=3000, in
\*Lnetns/ns.h )\*O
unless the creating process is running
as the superuser, providing a space of protected port numbers.
.SS Protocols
The NS protocol family supported by the operating system
is comprised of
the Internet Datagram Protocol (IDP)
\*Lidp\*O(4),
Error Protocol (available through IDP),
and
Sequenced Packet Protocol (SPP)
\*Lspp\*O(4).
.PP
SPP is used to support the SOCK_STREAM and SOCK_SEQPACKET abstraction,
while IDP is used to support the SOCK_DGRAM abstraction.
The error protocol is responded to by the kernel
to handle and report errors in protocol processing;
it is, however,
not easily accessible to user programs.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:
\*Lgethostbyname\*O(3),
\*Lgetnetent\*O(3),
\*Lgetprotoent\*O(3),
\*Lgetservent\*O(3),
\*Lns\*O(3)
.PP
Files:
\*Lnetintro\*O(7),
\*Lspp\*O(7),
\*Lidp\*O(7),
\*Lnsip\*O(7)
.nL
.iX "ns" "Xerox Network Systems protocol family"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
