.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: nsip.7,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/10 17:46:08 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)nsip.4	1.3 (Berkeley) 6/23/90
.\" 
.TH nsip 7
.SH NAME
\*Lnsip\*O \- Software network interface encapsulating NS packets in IP packets
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Loptions NSIP\*O
.nL
\*L#include <netns/ns_if.h>\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "nsip interface"
.iX "networks" "software interface"
.iX "interfaces to networks"
The
\*Lnsip\*O
interface is a software mechanism which may be
used to transmit Xerox NS packets through otherwise uncooperative
networks.
It functions by prepending an IP header, and resubmitting the packet
through the UNIX IP machinery.
.PP
The superuser can advise the operating system of a willing partner
by naming an IP address to be associated with an NS address.
Presently, only specific host pairs are allowed, and for each host
pair, an artificial point-to-point interface is constructed.
At some future date, IP broadcast addresses or hosts may be paired
with NS networks or hosts.
.PP
Specifically, a socket option of SO_NSIP_ROUTE is set on a socket
of family AF_NS, type SOCK_DGRAM, passing the following structure:
.rS
\*Lstruct nsip_req {
.nL
	struct sockaddr rq_ns;	/* must be ns format destination */
.nL
	struct sockaddr rq_ip;	/* must be ip format gateway */
.nL
	short rq_flags;
.nL
};\*O
.rE
.SH ERRORS
.\"from TP "  
.VL 
.LI "\*Lnsip\*Vn\*L: can't handle af\*Vn\*O"
The interface was handed
a message with addresses formatted in an unsuitable address
family; the packet was dropped.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Files:
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\" changed netintro(4) to netintro(7)
.\" changed ns(4) to ns(7)
\*Lnetintro\*O(7),
\*Lns\*O(7)
.\"End Digital correction.
.iX "nsip interface"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
