.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: presto.7,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/12 19:15:00 $
.\" 
.TH presto 7
.SH NAME
.PP
presto \- the Prestoserve pseudodevice driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/presto.h>
#include <sys/prestoioctl.h>

pseudo-device	presto
.fi
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "presto pseudodevice driver"
The Prestoserve pseudodevice driver \*Lpresto\*O caches
synchronous writes in nonvolatile memory. Prestoserve causes synchronous
writes to be performed at memory speeds, rather than at disk speeds.
Synchronous writes that result in Prestoserve cache hits do not perform the
earlier physical disk writes, because only the last write is actually
performed by Prestoserve.  Therefore, 50% to 65% of all the physical disk
write operations are avoided, because every sequential NFS write to
a file also
causes the inode and the indirect block to be synchronously written.
.PP
The \*Lpresto\*O driver is layered on other disk drivers, and
it intercepts the other drivers' I/O requests by replacing the entry points
of the original driver in the bdevsw and cdevsw tables. The \*Lpresto\*O
driver caches the intercepted synchronous write requests in
the Prestoserve cache's nonvolatile memory.
When Prestoserve needs to perform actual I/O, it calls the original
driver's entry points to perform the I/O.  A modified form of
Least Recently Used (LRU) replacement determines when the
Prestoserve cache data needs to be written to the intended disks.
.PP
An accelerated disk device (one that has the \*Lpresto\*O
pseudodevice driver layered on top of its driver),
uses the same major and minor devices that it used before it was accelerated.
.PP
The Prestoserve nonvolatile memory must be found at boot time in order
for Prestoserve to perform its write-caching function.
In addition, Prestoserve must pass diagnostic tests, and
there must be sufficient backup battery power to guarantee a reasonable
amount of cache data stability (measured in days or weeks) in the event
of a power or hardware failure.
.PP
If the Prestoserve nonvolatile memory is not found or if there is not enough
backup battery power, then the disks are not accelerated; however
they can be opened and used as usual.  In this case, the \*Lpresto\*O
driver simply
passes all I/O requests directly through to the appropriate device.
.SS Operation
When Prestoserve is in the PRUP state, it caches all synchronous write
requests for enabled file systems to the \*Lpresto\*O
driver in nonvolatile memory and writes the Prestoserve cache data
asynchronously to the intended disks.
.PP
When Prestoserve is in the
PRDOWN state, there is no data in the Prestoserve cache, no data
is put into the Prestoserve cache, and all disk
requests are passed directly to the real disk driver.
.PP
When Prestoserve is in the PRERROR
state, the data in the Prestoserve cache can not be written to the
intended disks because of a disk, system, or hardware error.
.PP
When the system is shut down normally by using the
\*Lreboot\*O system call from the \*Lshutdown\*O, \*Lhalt\*O, or \*Lreboot\*O
command, the Prestoserve cache data is written to
the intended disks, and Prestoserve enters the PRDOWN state.
This allows you to fix any system or disk error or to upgrade or change
your system without losing the data in the Prestoserve cache or
corrupting your disks.
.PP
If your system was shut down without following normal shutdown
procedures, and you reboot the system, any data in the Prestoserve
cache is written to the intended disks, if possible.  If the data is
successfully written to the intended disks (and if the nonvolatile
memory and backup battery passed the diagnostic tests), Prestoserve
enters the PRDOWN state.  If an error occurs, Prestoserve enters the
PRERROR state.
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.RS 5
Data can exist in the Prestoserve cache after you reboot the
system only in the event of a previous power failure, disk device error,
or kernel crash that resulted from a software or hardware problem.
.sp 6p
.RE
.PP
If an error from a disk device occurs
or if the backup battery power is insufficient, Prestoserve
writes the cache data to the intended disks, if possible, and enters the
PRERROR state.  When Prestoserve is in the PRERROR
state, new data that is written to a block not found in the Prestoserve
cache is passed directly to the real disk driver.
If new data is written to a block that is found in the cache,
Prestoserve replaces the existing block and attempts to
write the block to the real disk driver to determine
if the error condition on that block still exists.
If the write is successful and if all the  Prestoserve cache
data can be written to the intended disks, Prestoserve leaves the
PRERROR state.
.PP
The Prestoserve cache never discards data without being explicitly
told to do so by using a PRRESET
ioctl command.  This can be done by using the \*Lpresto -R\*O
command.  This command should only be used when there is a fatal disk error
and when the data is not important.
.SS ioctl Commands
The \*Lpresto\*O pseudodevice driver does not intercept ioctl
commands;  they go directly to the actual disk driver.  The following ioctl
commands can be performed on the Prestoserve control device \*L/dev/pr0\*O.
Some ioctl
commands affect all of Prestoserve operation,
while others only affect a particular accelerated file system.
.TP
PRGETSTATUS
The argument to ioctl
is a pointer to a
.B "presto_status"
structure, which contains battery status information, Prestoserve
state, current and maximum nonvolatile memory sizes, and various Prestoserve
statistics.
.TP
PRNGETSTATUS
The argument to ioctl
is a pointer to a
.B "presto_status"
structure, which contains extended chargeable
battery status information, Prestoserve
state, current and maximum nonvolatile memory sizes, and various Prestoserve
statistics.
.TP
PRSETSTATE
The argument to ioctl is a pointer to an
.BR int .
The
.B int
can be either PRUP
to enable Prestoserve or PRDOWN
to disable Prestoserve.  When a system reboots, Prestoserve is in the
PRDOWN state and must be explicitly enabled by an ioctl.
You enable Prestoserve by using the \*Lpresto \-u\*O
command.  You can also automatically enable Prestoserve by specifying the
appropriate run-time variables in the \*L/etc/rc.config\*O
file and specifying file systems in the \*L/etc/prestotab\*O
file.  The \*Lprestosetup\*O command provides you with an interactive facility
to set up Prestoserve.
When Prestoserve goes from the PRDOWN
state to the PRUP
state, the Prestoserve I/O statistics are reset.  When Prestoserve
goes from the PRUP state to the PRDOWN state, all the Prestoserve
buffers are written to the intended disks, and the buffers are invalidated.
.TP
PRSETMEMSZ
The argument to ioctl is a pointer to an
.BR int .
This
.B int
is the size in bytes of the Prestoserve nonvolatile memory to be used.
This size cannot be larger than the maximum size reported in the
.B presto_status
structure.
.TP
PRRESET
The argument to ioctl is ignored.  Like the PRSETSTATE
ioctl, PRRESET
sets the Prestoserve state to PRDOWN,
but it also reinitializes all of nonvolatile Prestoserve memory.  If
Prestoserve was in the PRERROR
state and some Prestoserve buffers could not be written
to the intended disks because of disk I/O errors, the data in the buffers is lost.
This is the only method you can use to force Prestoserve
to discard data that cannot be written to disk, and it can be accomplished by
using the \*Lpresto -R\*O command.
.TP
PRFLUSH
The argument to ioctl is ignored.
All the data in the Prestoserve buffers is written to the intended
disks, but the buffers are
not invalidated. This command can be used by a daemon that flushes the
cache periodically to minimize the risk to data in the event of a
catastrophic failure.  The cache data can be flushed to the intended
disks by using the \*Lpresto -F\*O command.
.TP
PRGETUPRTAB
The argument to ioctl is a pointer to a
.BR "struct uprtab" .
On input, the
.B upt_bmajordev
and
.B upt_unit
fields specify the block device major number and unit number of
the device whose
.B "struct uprtab"
should be returned.  The
.B upt_bmajordev
and
.B upt_unit
fields are set to
.B NODEV ,
which is defined in the header file \*L<sys/param.h>\*O,
if the requested device does not exist or if it is not
accelerated.  The
.B "struct uprtab"
contains a
.B upt_enabled
field that is a bit vector indexed by a partition number and that
indicates whether the partition has Prestoserve
caching enabled.
.TP
PRNEXTUPRTAB
The argument to ioctl is a pointer to a
.BR "struct uprtab" .
This ioctl returns the
.B "struct uprtab"
for the accelerated device with the
smallest (block device major number, unit number) pair
that is greater than the
.B upt_bmajordev
and
.B upt_unit
fields of the
.B "struct uprtab"
argument.  This allows each accelerated device's
.B "struct uprtab"
to be retrieved sequentially by specifying the previous device's
(block device major number, unit number) pair.
To get the first accelerated device's
.BR "struct uprtab" ,
set the
.B upt_bmajordev
and
.B upt_unit
fields to
.B NODEV .
Use the same
.B "struct uprtab"
that was returned on the previous call for the next call.
When the
.B upt_bmajordev
and
.B upt_unit
fields of the
.B "struct uprtab"
argument are greater than or equal to the last accelerated
device's major block device number, the
.B "struct uprtab"
that is returned has the
.B upt_bmajordev
and
.B upt_unit
fields set to
.BR NODEV .
.TP
PRENABLE
The argument to ioctl is a pointer to a
.BR dev_t .
This enables Prestoserve caching on the specified file system.
.TP
PRDISABLE
The argument to ioctl is a pointer to a
.BR dev_t .
If all cached data for the specified file system
can be successfully written
to disk, Prestoserve caching is disabled for this file system.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B "Prestoserve license not registered"
.br
This message is displayed if you attempt to use Prestoserve
on a system that has not had its license registered. It is necessary to
register a valid license in order to use Prestoserve.
.PP
.B "presto: using %d bytes of NVRAM at 0x%x"
.br
This message is displayed at boot time and indicates that Prestoserve
recognized its control information portion of the cache.
It is a normal Prestoserve startup message.
.PP
.B "presto: initializing %d bytes of NVRAM at 0x%x"
.br
This message is displayed at boot time and indicates that Prestoserve did not
recognize the cache as being in either a clean (containing no data) or a
dirty (containing data) state.
The message is usually displayed when the cache is used for the first time,
after the cache has been cleared by using a diagnostic command, or
after backup battery failure.
.PP
.B "presto: NVRAM tested %s"
.br
This message is displayed at boot time, and it indicates that the cache
tested as either "read/write ok" or "readonly ok."
The message is a normal Prestoserve startup message.
.PP
.B "presto: %s battery %s"
.br
The status for the primary battery or a secondary
battery, if applicable, is reported as either
.B OK ,
.B LOW ,
or
.B DISABLED .
This message is displayed at boot time and when there is a change
in the state of the backup battery power level.
.PP
.B "presto: cache contains dirty data"
.br
This message is displayed at boot time if Prestoserve
was not shut down by using the normal system shutdown procedures.
.PP
.B "presto: %d dirty buffers found"
.br
This message indicates that dirty buffers
were found after the system rebooted.
The data is written to the intended disks as soon as possible,
usually when the first I/O request occurs for any accelerated device.
.PP
.B "presto: writing dirty buffers"
.br
This message indicates that Prestoserve has begun to write the data in
the dirty buffers to the intended disks.
.PP
.B "presto: dirty buffers written"
.br
This message indicates that the data in the dirty buffers has been
successfully written to the intended disks.
.PP
.B "presto: using software version %d -- version %d last used"
.br
This message is displayed at boot time and indicates that the kernel
is now being run with a version of the Prestoserve software that is
different from the version used previously.  Usually, this message is
displayed when you first boot the system after performing
a software upgrade.
.PP
.B "presto: expected sizes %d, %d -- found %d, %d"
.br
This message indicates that the block size and fragment size
in the Prestoserve control information portion of the cache are
different from the information that was expected.
This message should only be displayed when you first boot the system after
performing a software upgrade.
.PP
.B "presto: NVRAM increased from %d to %d bytes at 0x%x"
.br
This message indicates that only a portion
of the Prestoserve cache was being used when the system was shut down,
but now Prestoserve is using the entire cache.  The \*Lpresto \-s\*O
command, which changes the size of the Prestoserve cache, is described
in \*Lpresto\*O(8).
.PP
.B "presto: decreased from %d to %d bytes!"
.br
This message indicates that a hardware or software problem exists
because the size of the Prestoserve cache at reboot is less
than the size of the cache when the system shut down.
.PP
.B "presto: dirty buffers found for host id 0x%x,"
.br
.B "which is different from this host's id (0x%x)"
.br
This message is displayed at boot time and indicates that Prestoserve
was not shut down normally and that the cache contents were previously in a
different system (for example, either the cache was moved or the system
ID, which is usually the on-board Ethernet hardware address, has changed).
Prestoserve allows you to do one of the following interactively:
discard the data, write the data to disk, or halt the machine.
.PP
.B "The Prestoserve cache failed memory self-tests."
.br
.B "The cache may contain data which has not been written to disk yet."
.br
When these messages are displayed, Prestoserve allows you to do one of the
following interactively:  continue with the boot or halt the machine.
.PP
.B "presto: error %d opening dev (%d, %d), skipping writing of its buffers..."
.br
This message indicates that dirty Prestoserve buffers were found after
the system rebooted,
and the data in the dirty buffers could not be written to the specified device
because the device failed to open.  You should verify that the
device is online and that the kernel successfully found the device at boot time.
Refer to \*Lerrno\*O(2) for a complete description
of the error.
.PP
.B "presto: error %d opening block device (%d, %d)"
.br
This message indicates that the specified device failed to open.
You should check your disk configuration and make sure that the drive is on
line.  Refer to \*Lerrno\*O(2) for a complete
description of the error.
.PP
.B "presto: error %d ioctl'ing dev (%d, %d)"
.br
This message indicates that an ioctl failed for the specified device.
Refer to \*Lerrno\*O(2) for a complete description
of the error.
.PP
.B "presto: can NOT do direct I/0 for block device (%d, %d)"
.br
.B "presto: using block device (%d, %d) in `bounceio' mode"
.br
These messages indicate that the disk controller for the specified device
could not directly address the cache when Prestoserve was
enabled on the file system.
.PP
.B "presto: flush dirty buffers"
.br
This message is displayed when Prestoserve is in the PRERROR
state and receives a request to write the data in a dirty buffer to
the intended disks.
.PP
.B "presto: Block device %d not present or is not Presto-ized in this kernel!"
.br
This message indicates that Prestoserve
was not shut down cleanly, and the system was previously running a kernel
with an accelerated device that the current kernel does not accelerate.
You should boot a kernel that accelerates all the devices that were
previously accelerated.
.PP
.B "presto: NVRAM probe error"
.br
This message is displayed at system startup if a Prestoserve cache
read/write error occurred, and it indicates that the cache could not be accessed.
It indicates a hardware or software error.
.PP
.B "presto: failed to write and read 0x%x from 0x%x"
.br
This message indicates that the Prestoserve cache failed the read/write test
at the specified address.
.PP
.B "presto: error on dev (%d, %d)"
.br
This message indicates that an I/O error occurred on the specified disk
during a Prestoserve write-back operation.
.PP
.B "presto: not enough backup battery power!"
.br
This message indicates that there is inadequate backup battery power.
Prestoserve attempts to write all Prestoserve cache data to the
intended disks and then enters the PRERROR state.
.PP
.B "presto: disabling..."
.br
This message indicates that Prestoserve disabled itself because of
inadequate backup battery power or because a disk error occurred
during a write to disk.
.PP
.B "presto: back online!"
.br
This message indicates that a disk error or low backup battery power
condition has been corrected and that Prestoserve is enabled again.
.SS Errors
.TP 12
[EACCESS]
Indicates that Prestoserve is not registered for use on this system.
.TP
[EPERM]
Indicates that a caller whose uid is not root tried to use the
PRSETSTATE, PRSETMEMSZ, PRRESET, PRENABLE or PRDISABLE command.
.TP
[EBUSY]
Indicates that you tried to use the PRSETSTATE, PRSETMEMSZ, or
PRDISABLE command, but a fatal disk error or a battery problem exists.
.TP
[ENOMEM]
Indicates that the memory size you specified in the PRSETSTATE
command exceeds the maximum size of the cache reported in the
.B presto_status
structure.
.TP
[ENODEV]
Indicates that Prestoserve
was not successfully started at boot time, or it indicates that you used
the PRENABLE or PRDISABLE command and the device
specified by dev_t is not a device initialized for use with Prestoserve
or an error occurred in trying to open/ioctl the device.
.TP
[EINVAL]
Indicates that an invalid argument was specified with the PRSETMEMSZ
or PRSETSTATE command or that an invalid command was used.
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 28
\*L/dev/pr0\*O
Generic Prestoserve control device
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lerrno\*O(2), \*Lioctl\*O(2), \*Lpresto\*O(8), \*Ldxpresto\*O(8X),
\*Lprestoctl_svc\*O(8), \*Lprestosetup\*O(8), \*Lprestotab\*O(4)
.br
\*VGuide to Prestoserve\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
