.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ptem.7,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/20 17:27:36 $
.\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 1.2
...\"	[91/10/02  16:29:13  steto]
...\"
.TH ptem 7
.\".wH .UC 4
.SH NAME
\*Lptem\*O - Null STREAMS module for pseudoterminal emulation
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "pty emulation module"
The \*Lptem\*O module is a null STREAMS module that OSF/1 provides
to applications for use in place of the AT&T System V Release 4
\*Lptem\*O module.  The AT&T System V Release 4 \*Lptem\*O module emulates a pseudoterminal
when used in conjunction with a line discipline and a pty device driver.
In OSF/1, all of the AT&T \*Lptem\*O functions are included in
the pty slave device driver.
.PP
The client process pushes the null \*Lptem\*O module onto the slave side
of the pty device stream below the \*Lldterm\*O module
by a call to the STREAMS \*LI_PUSH ioctl(\|)\*O function.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:
\*Lstty\*O(1)
.nL
Functions:
\*Lioctl\*O(2)
.nL
Interfaces:
\*Lldterm\*O(7),
\*Lpckt\*O(7),
\*Lstreamio\*O(7).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
