.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: scc.7,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/27 13:30:40 $
.\"
.TH scc 7
.SH NAME
\*Lscc\*O \- serial keyboard/mouse/communications interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lcontroller   scc0   at tc0   slot 3   vector sccintr\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "serial line controller" "scc"
.iX "scc serial line controller"
Two base board Zilog \*Lscc\*O dual UARTS provide
DECstation 5000/100 and DECstation 5000/300
workstations with keyboard, mouse, and serial communications
interfaces. The serial communications interfaces include full modem
control and can operate at baud rates from B50 to B38400 (see
\*Ltty\*O(7)).
.\" or \*Ltermios\*O(4)).
.PP
The data signal connections for the 2 \*Lscc\*O chips follows:
...\"from TP 10"
.VL
.LI "\*LSCC/Port\*O"
\*LUsage\*O
...\"from TP 10"
.LI "\*L0/A\*O"
Mouse
...\"from TP 10"
.LI "\*L0/B\*O"
Communications port 1
...\"from TP 10"
.LI "\*L1/A\*O"
Keyboard
...\"from TP 10"
.LI "\*L1/B\*O"
Communications port 2
.LE
.PP
In server configurations (that is, no graphics header), serial port 2
(\*L/dev/tty01\*O on non-server configurations)
becomes the system console. The serial system console port always
operates at 9600 BPS, 8-bits, no parity.  No modem control is supported.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Data communications equipment attached to the console serial port in
server configurations must be set to 9600 BPS, 8-bits, no parity. The
\*Lscc\*O driver enforces this restriction.
.SH FILES
.PP
...\"from TP "
.VL
.LI "/dev/console"
console terminal
...\"from TP "
.LI "/dev/tty00"
local terminal
...\"from TP "
.LI "/dev/tty01"
local terminal
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.\" \*Ltermios\*O(4),
\*Lconsole\*O(7),
\*Ldevio\*O(7), \*Ltty\*O(7),
\*LMAKEDEV\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
