.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: SCSI.7,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/17 20:55:12 $
.\" 
.TH SCSI 7
.SH NAME
.PP
\*LSCSI\*O, \*LRAID\*O \- Small Computer System Interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Lnn#\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The operating system interfaces to disk and tape devices through the
Small Computer System Interface (SCSI).  Initial SCSI support is limited to the Digital-supplied mass storage devices.  The following devices are fully
supported on the operating system:
.iX "SCSI device driver"
.iX "RAID device driver"
.iX "Redundant Arrays of Independent Disks"
.iX "Small Computer System Interconnect"
.iX "device driver" "SCSI"
.iX "device driver" "RAID"
.ML
.\" .LI
.\" Winchester disks for MIPS-based systems: RZ23, RZ23L, RZ24, RZ24L, RZ25, 
.\" RZ26, RZ55, RZ56, RZ57, RZ58, RX23, RX26, RX33
.LI
Winchester disks for Alpha AXP-based systems: RZ24L, RZ25, RZ26, RZ55,
RZ56, RZ58, RZ73, RX23, RX26, RX33
.LI
RAID (Redundant Arrays of Independent Disks) SCSI controllers for Alpha
AXP-based systems: HSZ10
.\" .LI
.\" Magnetic tapes for MIPS-based systems: TZ30, TZ85, TZK50, TLZ04, 
.\" TLZ06, TSZ05, TSZ07, TKZ08, TKZ09
.LI
Magnetic tapes for Alpha AXP-based systems: TZ30, TZ85, TZK10, TLZ04,
TLZ06, TSZ07, TKZ08, TKZ09 
.LI
Optical disks: RRD42
.LE
.PP
Refer to your Software Product Description (SPD) for information on
processor-specific device support.
.PP
Under the operating system, a SCSI
device is referred to by its logical name.  Logical names take
the following form:
.oS
nn#
.oE
The \*Vnn\*O argument is the two-character name; the number sign (#)
represents the unit number.  The two-character names for SCSI devices are:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lrz\*O"
RZ24L, RZ25, RZ26, RZ55, RZ56, RZ58, RZ73, RX23, RX26, RX33,
and RRD42 disks
.LI "\*Ltz\*O"
TZ30, TZ85, TZK10, TLZ04, TLZ06, TSZ07, TKZ08, and TKZ09 tapes
.LE
.PP
The unit number is a combination of the SCSI
bus number (either 0, 1, and so on) and the device's target ID number.
The unit number is eight times the bus number plus the
target ID.  For example, an RZ23 disk at target ID 3 on bus
0 would be referred to as rz3; a TZK50 tape at target ID 5 on the second
SCSI bus would be referred to as 13.
.PP
The SCSI bus has eight possible target device IDs.  By default, one is
allocated to the system.  This allows for a maximum of seven target devices
connected to a SCSI bus.
.SS "SCSI LUN support"
The SCSI driver supports Logical Unit Numbers (LUNs) but there is no
predefined logical naming scheme, so you must use the following
procedure to create the device special files for devices that do not
use a LUN of zero.  SCSI RAID controllers typically are capable of multiple
LUNS per target identifier.
.PP
The \*L/dev/MAKEDEV\*O shell script creates device special files for
all the devices that are attached to a maximum of 16 SCSI
controllers that have a zero (0) LUN.
.PP
The following diagram describes the minor numbers for SCSI disk devices:
.iS
       ----------------------------------------------------------
Bits: | 19      14 | 13         10 | 9         6 | 5           0 |
       ----------------------------------------------------------
      |  Bus no.   |  Target ID    |      LUN    | Partition no. |
       ----------------------------------------------------------
.iE
.PP
The following diagram describes the minor numbers for SCSI tape devices:
.iS
       -----------------------------------------------------------
Bits: | 19    14 | 13      10 | 9       6 | 5       1 |     0     |
       -----------------------------------------------------------
      | Bus no.  | Target ID  |    LUN    |  Density  | No rewind |
       -----------------------------------------------------------
.iE
.PP
To create the device special files for the device you want to add, use
the previous diagrams to calculate the minor number value.  If you
want to add a disk device, you must create the character and block
device files for each partition.  If you want to add a tape device, you
must create the device special files for each density and for no
rewind.
.PP
To add a disk device, you must use the following equation:
.iS
(LUN x 64) + (target ID x 1024) + (bus no. x 16384) + partition no.
.iE
.PP
The following example uses the previous formula to add a SCSI disk
device with bus number 2, target ID 4, and LUN 3:
.iS
Partition a: (3 x 64) + (4 x 1024) + (2 x 16384) + 0 = 37056
Partition b: (3 x 64) + (4 x 1024) + (2 x 16384) + 1 = 37057
Partition c: (3 x 64) + (4 x 1024) + (2 x 16384) + 2 = 37058
Partition d: (3 x 64) + (4 x 1024) + (2 x 16384) + 3 = 37059
Partition e: (3 x 64) + (4 x 1024) + (2 x 16384) + 4 = 37060
Partition f: (3 x 64) + (4 x 1024) + (2 x 16384) + 5 = 37061
Partition g: (3 x 64) + (4 x 1024) + (2 x 16384) + 6 = 37062
Partition h: (3 x 64) + (4 x 1024) + (2 x 16384) + 7 = 37063
.iE
.PP
Create the disk block special files as follows:
.oS
# mknod /dev/rz?a b 8 37056
# mknod /dev/rz?b b 8 37057
# mknod /dev/rz?c b 8 37058
# mknod /dev/rz?d b 8 37059
# mknod /dev/rz?e b 8 37060
# mknod /dev/rz?f b 8 37061
# mknod /dev/rz?g b 8 37062
# mknod /dev/rz?h b 8 37063
.oE
.PP
Create the disk character special files as follows:
.oS
# mknod /dev/rrz?a c 8 37056
# mknod /dev/rrz?b c 8 37057
# mknod /dev/rrz?c c 8 37058
# mknod /dev/rrz?d c 8 37059
# mknod /dev/rrz?e c 8 37060
# mknod /dev/rrz?f c 8 37061
# mknod /dev/rrz?g c 8 37062
# mknod /dev/rrz?h c 8 37063
.oE
.PP
To add a tape device, you must use the following equation:
.iS
(LUN x 64)+(target ID x 1024)+(bus no. x 16384)+(density x 2)+no_rewind
.iE
.PP
The following example uses the previous formula to add a SCSI tape
device with bus number 2, target ID 4, and LUN 3:
.PP
Perform the calculations for the rewind device files:
.iS
Density
low:  (3x64) + (4x1024) + (2x16384) + (0x2) + 0 = 37056
high: (3x64) + (4x1024) + (2x16384) + (1x2) + 0 = 37058
med:  (3x64) + (4x1024) + (2x16384) + (2x2) + 0 = 37060
aux:  (3x64) + (4x1024) + (2x16384) + (3x2) + 0 = 37062
.iE
.PP
Perform the calculations for the no rewind device files:
.iS
Density
low:  (3x64) + (4x1024) + (2x16384) + (0x2) + 1 = 37057
high: (3x64) + (4x1024) + (2x16384) + (1x2) + 1 = 37059
med:  (3x64) + (4x1024) + (2x16384) + (2x2) + 1 = 37061
aux:  (3x64) + (4x1024) + (2x16384) + (3x2) + 1 = 37063
.iE
.PP
Create the tape rewind device special files:
.oS
# mknod /dev/rmt?l c 9 37056
# mknod /dev/rmt?h c 9 37058
# mknod /dev/rmt?m c 9 37060
# mknod /dev/rmt?a c 9 37062
.oE
.PP
Create the tape no rewind device special files:
.oS
# mknod /dev/nrmt?l c 9 37057
# mknod /dev/nrmt?h c 9 37059
# mknod /dev/nrmt?m c 9 37061
# mknod /dev/nrmt?a c 9 37063
.oE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The SCSI device driver does not operate with optical disks other than the
Digital-supplied devices.
.PP
The SCSI driver attempts to support, on a best-effort basis,
non-Digital-supplied Winchester disks and magnetic tapes.
.PP
The following notes apply to the driver's handling of
non-Digital-supplied disks:
.ML
.LI
These disks are assigned a device type of RZxx instead of the
Digital-supplied disk names listed previously (for example, RZ55).
The RZxx disks follow the same logical device-naming scheme as the
Digital-supplied disks.
.LI
During the autoconfigure phase of system startup, the driver displays
the contents of the SCSI vendor ID, product ID, and the revision level
fields of the inquiry data return by the SCSI device.  Also, the bus number,
target ID, and LUN are displayed.
.LI
To configure an RZ device or RAID controller so that LUNS are displayed
during the
autoconfigure phase of system startup, the configuration file that
your kernel is generated from must be modified to reflect LUNS other
than zero. The following is an example of a SCSI HSZ10 RAID controller
at bus number 3, target ID 1, LUNs 0, 1, and 2:
.IP
device disk             rz25    at asc3         drive 192
.IP
device disk             rz25    at asc3         drive 193
.IP
device disk             rz25    at asc3         drive 194
.LI
RZxx disks are assigned a default partition table. The
default table can be modified by editing the \*Lccmn_rzxx_sizes[8]\*O entry in
the \*L/usr/sys/data/cam_data.c\*O file.
The \*Ldisklabel\*O
command can also be used to modify the partition table on an RZxx disk.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lrz\*O(7),
\*Ltz\*O(7),
\*Ldisklabel\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
