.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)tms.4	3.1	11/24/87
.TH tms 7
.SH NAME
.PP
tms \- TMSCP magnetic tape interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\" UNIBUS, Q-bus may need to be added for Silver/MIPS
.\".B For UNIBUS, Q-bus:
.\" Modified for Alpha - Carol Sheridan 8/19/92
.B For XMI/KDM on Alpha-based systems: 
.RS 3
.\"
.\" Commented out for Alpha - Carol Sheridan 8/19/92
.\".br
.\".B "controller klesiu0 at uba0
.\"
.br
.B "bus xmi0 at iop0 vector xmierror"
.br
.B "controller uq0 at xmi? port kdm vector uqintr"
.br
.B "device tape tms0 at uq0 drive 0"
.RE
.PP
.\"
.\" Modified for Alpha - Carol Sheridan 8/19/92
.B "For MSI Bus: only MIPS-based DECsystem 5500"
.RS 3
.br
.B "bus msi0 at ibus? vector msi_isr"
.br
.B "controller dssc1 at msi0 msinode 1"
.br
.B "device tape tms3 at dssc1 drive 3"
.RE
.PP
.\"
.\" Modified for Alpha - Carol Sheridan 8/19/92
.B For XMI/CI/HSC on Alpha-based systems:
.RS 3
.br
.B "bus xmi0 at iop0 vector xmierror"
.br
.B "bus ci0 at xmi? port np vector cimna_isr"
.\"
.\" Commented out for Alpha - Carol Sheridan 8/19/92
.\".br
.\".B "adapter ci0 at vaxbi? node?"
.br
.B "controller hsc6 at ci0 cinode 6"
.br
.B "device tape tms3 at hsc6 drive 3"
.RE
.PP
.B "For tms devices dual ported between two controllers:"
.br
.RS 3
.B "device tape tms2 at * drive 2"
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "tms interface" "TMSCP magnetic tape interface"
.iX "Tape Mass Storage Control Protocol" "TMSCP magnetic tape interface"
.iX "tmscp keyword" "tms interface"
The TMSCP driver provides a standard tape drive interface,
as described in \*Lmtio\*O(7).
This is a driver for any controller that adheres
to the Tape Mass Storage Control Protocol (TMSCP).
The TMSCP controllers communicate with the host
through a packet-oriented protocol termed
the Tape Mass Storage Control Protocol.
.\"
.\" Commented out for Alpha - needs to be updated for Silver/MIPS
.\".SH Tape Support 
.\"TK50, TK70, TF70, TU81, TU81e, TA78, TA79, TA81, RV20, TA90, TA90E, TA91
.SS Tape Support - Alpha-based systems
.PP
TA78, TA79, TA81, TA90, TA90E, TA91
.SS Diagnostics
.PP
All diagnostic messages are sent to the error logger subsystem.
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/dev/rmt???\*O
.br
\*L/dev/nrmt???\*O
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
mtio(7), MAKEDEV(8), uerf(8), tapex(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
