.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tz.7,v $ $Revision: 3.2.8.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 19:32:08 $
.\" 
.TH tz 7
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ltz\*O \- SCSI magnetic tape interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
DEC 7000 DEC XZA:
  \*Lbus lsb0 at nexus?
 bus iop0 at lsb0 vector ioperror
 bus xmi0 at iop0 vector xmierror
 bus xza0 at xmi?
 controller skz0 at xza0
 controller skz1 at xza0
 tape tz0 at skz0 drive 0
 tape tz8 at skz1 drive 64\*O
.sp
DEC 4000 DEC SIOP:
  \*Lbus ibus0 at nexus?
 bus lbus0 at ibus0?
 controller siop0 at lbus0 slot 0 vector siopcointr
 controller siop1 at lbus0 slot 1 vector siopcointr
 tape tz0 at siop0 drive 0
 tape tz9 at siop1 drive 72\*O
.sp
DEC 3000 NCR ASC:
  \*Lbus tc0 at nexus?
 bus tcds0 at tc0 vector tcdsintr
 controller asc0 at * vector tcdsintr
 controller asc1 at * vector tcdsintr
 tape tz0 at asc0 drive 0
 tape tz10 at asc1 drive 80\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\" 
.\" These are for MIPS, out for Silver:
.\" .sS
.\" RISC DEC SII:
.\"  \*Ladapter ibus0 at nexus?
.\"  controller sii0 at ibus? vector sii_intr
.\"  tape tz0 at sii0 drive 0\*O
.\" .spR
.\" ISC DEC KZQ:
.\"  \*Ladapter uba0 at nexus?
.\"  controller kzq1 at ibus? csr 0761300 vector kzq_intr
.\"  tape tz0 at kzq1 drive 0\*O
.\" .sp
.\" RISC NCR ASC:
.\"  \*Ladapter ibus0 at nexus?
.\"  controller asc0 at ibus? vector ascintr
.\"  tape tz0 at asc0 drive 0\*O
.\" .sE
.\"
.iX "tz interface" "SCSI magnetic tape interface"
.iX "TZ30 magnetical tape interface"
.iX "TZ85 magnetic tape interface"
.iX "TKZ08 magnetic tape interface"
.iX "TLZ04 magnetic tape interface"
.iX "TLZ06 magnetic tape interface"
.iX "TSZ07 magnetic tape interface"
.iX "TZK08 magnetic tape interface"
.iX "TKZ09 magnetic tape interface"
.iX "TZK10 magnetic tape interface"
.iX "TZK11 magnetic tape interface"
.iX "scsi keyword" "tz interface"
The Small Computer System Interface (SCSI)
tape driver provides a standard tape drive interface
as described in
\*Lmtio\*O(7).
This is the tape driver for any Digital SCSI tape device.
Facilities are provided to allow the addition of third-party
SCSI tape drives to the system. Refer to the
\*L/usr/sys/data/cam_data.c\*O file for instructions.
.PP
For reads from Beginning of Media (BOM), the density of the tape is obtained
from the drive.
Autodensity selection is then used for all read operations.
This means that reads are performed
in the density of the tape.  For writes from BOM, the density and blocking
factor of the tape are set.  The tape is written in the density and blocking
factor that the user has selected by specifying one of the following device
special files: \*Lrmt?a\*O; \*Lrmt?l\*O; \*Lrmt?m\*O; or \*Lrmt?h\*O.
.PP
The following are the default densities for specific SCSI tape drives:
.oS
    TZ30: Single-density drive.
	rmt?a 6666 BPI
	rmt?l 6666 BPI
	rmt?m 6666 BPI
	rmt?h 6666 BPI
    TZ85: Write, single-density-drive.
          Read, TZ50, TZ30 and TZ85 formats.
	rmt?a 42500 BPI
	rmt?l 42500 BPI
	rmt?m 42500 BPI
	rmt?h 42500 BPI
    TLZ04: Single-density drive.
	rmt?a 61000 BPI
	rmt?l 61000 BPI
	rmt?m 61000 BPI
	rmt?h 61000 BPI
    TLZ06: Single-density drive, compaction support.
	rmt?a 61000 BPI
	rmt?l 61000 BPI
	rmt?m 61000 BPI, compaction turned on.
	rmt?h 61000 BPI, compaction turned on.
    TSZ07: Triple-density drive.
	rmt?a 6250 BPI
	rmt?l 800 BPI
	rmt?m 1600 BPI
	rmt?h 6250 BPI
    TKZ08: Single-density drive (Exabyte 8200).
	rmt?a 54000 BPI
	rmt?l 54000 BPI
	rmt?m 54000 BPI
	rmt?h 54000 BPI
    TKZ09: Dual-format drive, supports Exabyte 8200 and 8500
    formats.
	rmt?a 54000 BPI (8200 format)
	rmt?l 54000 BPI (8200 format)
	rmt?m 45434 BPI (8500 format)
	rmt?h 45434 BPI (8500 format)
    TZK10: Quad-format drive.
 	See description that follows.
    TZK11: QIC-format drive.
	See description that follows.
.oE
.\" 
.\" Took out 9-21-92
.\"     TKZ08: Single-density drive.
.\" 	rmt?a 54000 BPI
.\" 	rmt?l 54000 BPI
.\" 	rmt?m 54000 BPI
.\" 	rmt?h 54000 BPI
.\"
.\"     TZ50: Single-density drive. 
.\" 	rmt?a 6666 BPI
.\" 	rmt?l 6666 BPI
.\" 	rmt?m 6666 BPI
.\" 	rmt?h 6666 BPI
.\" 
.sp
The following formats are supported for the TZK10 QIC-format tape drive:
QIC-24 (read-only) 512-byte block size; QIC-120 and QIC-150 (read/write)
512-byte block size; and QIC-320 (read/write) variable block size.  With QIC-format tapes, except QIC-320 and QIC-525, all read and write operations must be
in multiples of the block size because record boundaries are not preserved.
Use the following device special file names to select QIC densities:
.\" .nP
.\" .IP
.sp 6p
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB lfHB lfHB lfHB
lfHB lfHB lfHB lfHB lfHB lfHB
l l l l l l .
_
.sp 4p
Format@Device Special@Block Size@Capacity@Cartridge@I/O
@File Name@@@@
.sp 4p
_
.sp 6p
QIC-24@rmt?a@fixed 512@60MB@DC600A@Read-only
.sp 6p
QIC-120@rmt?l@fixed 512@120MB@T{
DC6150
.br
DC600XTD
T}@Read/Write
.sp 6p
QIC-150@rmt?m@fixed 512@150MB@T{
DC6150
.br
DC600XTD
T}@Read/Write
.sp 6p
QIC-320@rmt?h@variable@320MB@DC6320@Read/Write
.sp 6p
QIC-525@rmt?h@variable@525MB@DC6525@Read/Write
_
.TE
.sp 6p
.ig ++
.PP
.VL 6m
.LI "\*Lrmt?a\*O"
QIC-24 fixed block size
.LI "\*Lrmt?l\*O"
QIC-120 fixed block size
.LI "\*Lrmt?m\*O"
QIC-150 fixed block size
.LI "\*Lrmt?h\*O"
QIC-320 variable block size
.LE
.++
The following formats are supported for the TZK11 QIC-format tape drive:
QIC-24 (read only) 512-byte block size; QIC-120 and QIC-150 (read/write)
512-byte block size; and QIC-320/525/1Gig/2Gig (read/write) variable
block size.  With QIC-format 24/120/150 tapes, all read and write
operations must be in multiples of the block size because record
boundaries are not preserved.  Use the following device special file
names to select QIC densities:
.sp 6p
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB lfHB lfHB lfHB
lfHB lfHB lfHB lfHB lfHB lfHB
l l l l l l .
_
.sp 4p
Format@Device Special@Block Size@Capacity@Cartridge@I/O
@File Name@@@@
.sp 4p
_
.sp 6p
QIC-24@rmt?a@fixed 512@60MB@DC600A@Read-only
.sp 6p
QIC-120@rmt?l@fixed 512@120MB@T{
DC6150
.br
DC600XTD
T}@Read/Write
.sp 6p
QIC-150@rmt?m@fixed 512@150MB@T{
DC6150
.br
DC600XTD
T}@Read/Write
.sp 6p
QIC-320@rmt?h@variable@320MB@DC6320@Read/Write
.sp 6p
QIC-525@rmt?h@variable@525MB@DC6525@Read/Write
.sp 6p
QIC-1G@rmt?h@variable@1G@DC9000@Read/Write
.sp 6p
QIC-2G@rmt?h@variable@2G@DC9000@Read/Write
_
.TE
.sp
The TZK11 tape drive uses autodensity select feature of the drive.
The 2 Gig density can only be written on a 2 Gig cartridge.  The 1 Gig
density can only be written on a 1 Gig cartridge.  The 320/525 cartridge
can be used to write 120/150/320/525 densities.
.sp
With all fixed-block tape devices, when you use the \*Ldd\*O command to
transfer a file to tape you must use padding to complete a block by specifying
the \*Lconv=sync\*O option.  For example, the following two \*Ldd\*O commands
use the \*Lconv=sync\*O option to transfer the \*L/etc/motd\*O file with a size of approximately 400 bytes to the QIC-format tape drives:
.oS
dd if=/etc/motd of=/dev/rmt0m bs=10k conv=sync
.oE
.oS
dd if=/etc/motd of=/dev/rmt0l bs=512 conv=sync
.oE
.SS Tape Support
Refer to the Software Product Description (SPD) for information on the
hardware that is supported on the various system platforms.
.\" .PP
.\" In addition to the previous tape devices, the following devices are 
.\" supported on MIPS-based systems: TZK50 and TSZ05.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
All diagnostic messages are sent to the error logger subsystem.
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/dev/rmt???\*O, \*L/dev/nrmt???\*O
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lmtio\*O(7), \*LRAID\*O(7), \*LSCSI\*O(7), \*LMAKEDEV\*O(8), \*Luerf\*O(8), \*Ltapex\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
