.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: udp.7,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/21 11:24:43 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" @(#)udp.4	6.4 (Berkeley) 6/23/90
.\" 
.TH udp 7
.SH NAME
\*Ludp\*O \- Internet user datagram protocol (UDP)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*L#include <sys/socket.h>\*O
.nL
\*L#include <netinet/in.h>\*O
.PP 
\*Ls = socket(AF_INET, SOCK_DGRAM, 0);\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "udp" "User Datagram Protocol"
.iX "User Datagram Protocol"
.iX "protocols" "UDP"
.iX "Internet Protocol family"
.iX "sockets"
UDP is a simple, unreliable datagram protocol that is used
to support the SOCK_DGRAM abstraction for the Internet
Protocol family.  UDP sockets are connectionless, and are
normally used with the
\*Lsendto(\|)\*O
and
\*Lrecvfrom(\|)\*O
functions, though the
\*Lconnect(\|)\*O
function may also be used to fix the destination for future
packets, in which case the
\*Lrecv(\|)\*O
or
\*Lread(\|)\*O
and
\*Lsend(\|)\*O
or
\*Lwrite(\|)\*O
functions may be used.
.PP 
UDP address formats are identical to those used by
TCP.  In particular, UDP provides a port identifier in addition
to the normal Internet address format.  Note that the UDP port
space is separate from the TCP port space (that is, a UDP port
may not be \*(lqconnected\*(rq to a TCP port).  In addition, broadcast
packets may be sent (assuming the underlying network supports
this) by using a reserved \*(lqbroadcast address\*(rq; this address
is network interface dependent.
.PP 
Options at the IP transport level may be used with UDP; see the
\*Lip(\|)\*O
reference page.
.SH ERRORS
If a socket operation fails,
\*Lerrno\*O
may be set to one of the following values:
.\"from TP li"  
.VL li
.LI "[EISCONN]"
The socket is already connected.  This error occurs
when trying to establish connection on a socket
or when trying to send a datagram with the destination
address specified.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOTCONN]" 
The
destination address of a datagram was not
specified, and the socket has not been
connected.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[ENOBUFS]" 
The system ran out of memory for
an internal data structure.
.LI "[EADDRINUSE]" 
An attempt
was made to create a socket with a port that has already been
allocated.
.\"from TP 1i"  
.LI "[EADDRNOTAVAIL]" 
An attempt was made to create a
socket with a network address for which no network interface
exists.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:
\*Lgetsockopt\*O(2),
\*Lrecv\*O(2),
\*Lsend\*O(2),
\*Lsocket\*O(2)
.PP 
Files:
\*Lnetintro\*O(7),
\*Linet\*O(7),
\*Lip\*O(7)
.iX "udp" "User Datagram Protocol"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
