.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: zero.7,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/02 07:00:06 $
.\"
.TH zero 7
.SH NAME
.PP
zero \- source of zeroes
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This is a special file that provides a means of obtaining
.iX "zero special file"
zeroes.  A read from a zero special file returns a buffer
full of zeroes.  This file is of infinite length.  Writes
to a zero special file succeed at all times, but the data
written is ignored.
.PP
If you choose to map to a zero special file, a zero-initialized
unnamed memory object is created that is of length equal to
the mapping and rounded up to the nearest page size returned
by the \*Lsysconf\*O function.
.PP
A zero special file object can be shared by several processes as long
as a common ancestor has mapped the object as \*LMAP_SHARED\*O.
.SH NOTES
.PP
Note that this version of the operating system does not support
remapping of currently mapped pages.
.SH FILES
.PP
\*L/dev/zero\*O
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
Functions:
\*Lfork\*O(2),
\*Lmmap\*O(2),
\*Lsysconf\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
