.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: admin.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/03 13:23:02 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
.TH admin 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ladmin\*O \- Creates and initializes SCCS files.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
There are two categories here:
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.\" .zA "defect, 7061, R1.1.2, split SYNOPSIS"
.sS
.SS Creating and Initializing SCCS Files
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*Ladmin\*O
[\*L\(hya\ \*Vuser\*O\ \&...]
\*O[\*L\(hyi\*O]\ [\*Vfile\*O] |
\*O[\*L\(hyn\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyf\ \*Vheader_flag\*O][\*Vvalue\*O\ \&...]
\*O[\*L\(hym\*O\ \*VMRlist\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyr\ \*Vnumber.number\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyt\*O]\ [\*Vfile\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyy\*O]\ [\*Vcomment\*O]
\*Vsccs_file\*O\ |\ \*Vsccs_directory\*O\ |\ \*L\(hy\*O
.in -.5i
.SS Changing Existing SCCS Files
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*Ladmin\*O
[\*L\(hya\ \*Vuser\*O\ \&...]
\*O[\*L\(hye\ \*Vuser\*O\ \&...]
\*O[\*L\(hyd\ \*Vheader_flag\*O\ \&...]
\*O[\*L\(hyf\ \*Vheader_flag\*O][\*Vvalue\*O\ \&...]
\*O[\*Vvalue\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyh\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyt\*O]\ [\*Vfile\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyz\*O]
\*Vsccs_file\*O\ |\ \*Vsccs_directory\*O\ |\ \*L\(hy\*O
.in -.5i
.sE
.\" .zZ "defect, 7061, R1.1.2, split SYNOPSIS"
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.PP
The \*Ladmin\*O command creates and initializes new Source Code Control System
(SCCS)
.gL "Source Code Control System"
.gL "SCCS"
files or changes specified parameters in existing SCCS files.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.iX "admin command"
.iX "files" "SCCS"
.iX "creating" "SCCS files"
.iX "SCCS" "creating files"
.iX "initializing" "SCCS files"
.iX "SCCS" "initializing files"
You can enter the flags and input file names in any order.  All flags
apply to all the files.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-a\*Vuser\*O"
Adds the specified user to the list of users who can
make sets of changes (deltas) to the SCCS file.
.\" .gL "delta"
The \*Vuser\*O argument can be either a username, a group name, or a group ID.
Specifying a group name or number is the same as specifying the names of
all users in that group.  You can specify more than one \*L\-a\*O
flag on a single \*Ladmin\*O command line.  If an SCCS file
contains an empty user list, anyone can add deltas.
.IP
If a file has a user list, the creator of the file must be included in
the list in order for the creator to make deltas to the file.
.LI "\*L\-d\*Vheader-flag\*O"
Removes the specified header flag from the SCCS file.  You can
specify this flag only with existing SCCS files.  You can also specify
more than one \*L\-d\*O flag in a single \*Ladmin\*O command.
.LI "\*L\-e\*Vuser\*O"
Removes the specified user from the list of users allowed
to make deltas to the SCCS file.  Specifying a group ID is equivalent to
specifying all usernames common to that group.  You can
specify several \*L\-e\*O flags on a single \*Ladmin\*O command line.
.LI "\*L\-f\*Vheader-flag\*O[\*Vvalue\*O]"
Places the specified header flag and value in the SCCS file.  You
.\" .gL "header flag"
can specify more than one header flag in a single \*Ladmin\*O command.
.LI "\*L\-h\*O"
Checks the structure of the SCCS file and compares a newly computed
checksum with the checksum that is stored in the first line of the SCCS
file.  When the checksum value is not correct, the file was
improperly modified or damaged.  This flag helps you detect
damage caused by the improper use of non-SCCS commands to modify SCCS
files, as well as accidental damage.  The \*L\-h\*O flag prevents
writing to the file, so it cancels the effect of any other flags
supplied.  If an error message is returned indicating the file is
damaged, use the \*L\-z\*O flag to recompute the checksum.  Then
test to see if the file has been corrected by using the \*L\-h\*O flag again.
.LI "\*L\-i\*O[\*Vfile\*O]"
Gets the text for a new SCCS file from \*Vfile\*O.  This text
is the first delta of the file.  If you specify the \*L\-i\*O flag
but you omit the \*Vfile\*O argument, \*Ladmin\*O reads the text from
standard input until it reaches End-of-File(Ctrl\\D).  If you do
not specify the \*L\-i\*O flag, but you do specify the \*L\-n\*O flag,
\*Ladmin\*O creates an empty SCCS file.  The \*Ladmin\*O command can only
create one file containing text at a time.  If you are creating two or
more SCCS files with one call to \*Ladmin\*O, you must use the
\*L\-n\*O flag, and the SCCS files created are empty.
.LI "\*L\-m\*O\*VMRlist\*O"
Specifies a list of Modification Request (MR) numbers to be
.\" .gL "Modification Request"
inserted into the SCCS file as the reason for creating the initial
delta.  The \*Lv\*O flag must be set.  The MR numbers are validated
if the \*Lv\*O flag has a value (the name of an MR number
validation program).  The \*Ladmin\*O command reports an error if the
\*Lv\*O flag is not set or if the MR validation fails.
.LI "\*L\-n\*O"
Creates a new, empty SCCS file.  Do not specify this flag when you
use the \*L\-i\*O flag.  See the description of the \*L\-i\*O flag for details.
.LI "\*L\-r\*Vnumber[\*O.\*Vnumber]\*O"
Inserts the initial delta into \*Vnumber\*O.\*Vnumber\*O, the
release and version, respectively.  You can specify \*L\-r\*O only if
you also specify the \*L\-i\*O or \*L\-n\*O flag.  If you do not
specify this flag, the initial delta becomes release 1, version 1.  Use
this flag only when creating an SCCS file.
If the version number is omitted, the version is set to 1 by default.
.LI "\*L\-t\*O[\*Vfile\*O]"
Takes descriptive text for the SCCS file from \*Vfile\*O.  If
you use \*L\-t\*O when creating a new SCCS file, you must supply a
file name.  In the case of an existing SCCS file without a file
 name, \*L\-t\*O causes removal of the descriptive
text (if any) currently in the SCCS file.
In the case of an existing SCCS file
with a file name, \*L\-t\*O causes text in the named file to
replace the descriptive text (if any) currently in the SCCS file.
.LI "\*L\-y\*O[\*Vcomment\*O]"
Inserts comment text into the initial delta in a manner
identical to that of the \*Ldelta\*O command.  Use the \*L\-y\*O flag only
when you create an SCCS file.  If you do not specify a comment,
\*Ladmin\*O inserts a line of the following form:
.iS
date and time created \*VYY/MM/DD HH:MM:SS\*L by \*Vlogin\*O
\*O\c
.iE
.LI "\*L\-z\*O"
Recomputes the SCCS file checksum and stores it in the first line
of the SCCS file.  (See the \*L\-h\*O flag description.)
.IP
Using \*Ladmin\*O with this flag on a damaged file can
prevent future detection of the damage.  Use this flag only
if the SCCS file is changed using non-SCCS commands because of a previous
serious error.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Ladmin\*O command creates new Source Code Control System
(SCCS)
.\" .gL "Source Code Control System"
.\" .gL "SCCS"
files or changes specified parameters in existing SCCS files.
.PP
The parameters that can be modified by \*Ladmin\*O
control how the \*Lget\*O command builds the files that you
can edit.  The parameters also provide information about who can access the
file, who can make changes, and when changes were made.
.PP
If the named file exists, \*Ladmin\*O modifies its
parameters as specified by the flags.  If it does not exist and you
supply the \*L\-i\*O flag or the \*L\-n\*O flag, \*Ladmin\*O
creates the new file and provides default values for unspecified flags.
.PP
If you specify a directory name for \*Vfile\*O, \*Ladmin\*O
performs the requested actions on all SCCS files in that directory (all
files with the \*Ls\&.\*O prefix).  If you specify a
\*L\-\*O (hyphen) as a file name, \*Ladmin\*O reads
standard input and interprets each line as the name of an SCCS file.  An
End-of-File character ends input.
.PP
The \*Ladmin\*O command is most often
used to create new SCCS files without setting parameters.
.PP
If you are not familiar with the delta numbering system, see \*Lget\*O(1),
\*Lsccs\*O(1), and the
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O.
.\" "Controlling File Revisions with SCCS" in the \*(Ga.
.SS Creating an SCCS File
All SCCS file names must have the form \*Ls.\*Vfile\*O.
New SCCS files are created with read-only permission.  You must have
write permission in the directory to create a file.  (See
\*Lchmod\*O(1) for an explanation of file permissions).
The \*Ladmin\*O command writes to a temporary x-file, which it calls
\*Lx.\*Vfile\*O.  The x-file has the same permissions as
the original SCCS file if it already exists, and it is read-only if
\*Ladmin\*O creates a new file.  After successful completion of
\*Ladmin\*O, the x-file is moved to the name of the SCCS file.
This action ensures that changes are made to the SCCS file only if
\*Ladmin\*O does not detect any errors while it is running.
.PP
You should create directories containing SCCS files with permission
code 755 (read, write, and execute permissions for owner, read and
execute permissions for group members and others).  You should create SCCS files
themselves as read-only files (444).  With these permissions, only
the owner can use non-SCCS commands to modify SCCS files.  If a group can
access and modify the SCCS files, make sure the directories include
group write permission.
.PP
The \*Ladmin\*O command also uses a temporary lock file (called
\*Lz.\*Vfile\*O) to prevent simultaneous updates to the
SCCS file by different users.  See \*Lget\*O(1) for additional
information on the \*Lz.\*Vfile\*O file.
.SS Header Flags
The following table contains the header flags that can be set with the
.iX "header" "SCCS"
.iX "SCCS" "header"
\*L\-f\*O flag and unset with the \*L\-d\*O flag.
The header flags control the format of the
g\-file created with the \*Lget\*O(1) command.  (See
.\" .gL "g-file"
\*Lget\*O(1) for details on the g-file.)
.VL 6m
.LI "\*LFlag\*O"
\*LPurpose\*O
.LI "\*Lb\*O"
Lets you use the \*L\-b\*O flag of a \*Lget\*O command
to create branch deltas.
.LI "\*Lc\*Vnumber\*O"
Makes \*Vnumber\*O the highest release number that a
\*Lget \-e\*O command can use.  The value of \*Vnumber\*O must be less
than or equal to 9999.  Its default value is 9999.
.LI "\*Ld\*VSID\*O"
Makes \*VSID\*O (SCCS ID) the default delta supplied to a
\*Lget\*O command.
.LI "\*Lf\*Vnumber\*O"
Makes \*Vnumber\*O the lowest release number that a \*Lget \-e\*O command
can retrieve.  The \*Vnumber\*O argument must be greater than
0 and less than 9999.  Its default value is 1.
.LI "\*Li\*O"
Treats the message
"\*CThere are no SCCS identification keywords in the file. (cm7)\*O"
(issued by the \*Lget\*O(1) or \*Ldelta\*O(1) command) as an error instead of
a warning.
.LI "\*Lj\*O"
Permits concurrent \*Lget\*O commands for editing the same
SID of an SCCS file.  This flag allows multiple concurrent updates to the
same version of the SCCS file.
.LI "\*Ll\*Vnumber\*O[\*L,\*Vnumber\*O \&.\&.\&.]"
Locks the releases specified by \*Vnumber\*O\&.\&.\&. against
editing, so that a \*Lget \-e\*O command against one of these releases
fails.  You can lock all releases against editing by specifying
\*L\-fla\*O and unlock specific releases with the \*L\-d\*O
flag.
.LI "\*Lm\*Vmodule\*O"
Substitutes \*Vmodule\*O for all occurrences of the %\&M%
keyword in an SCCS text file retrieved by a \*Lget\*O command.  The
default \*Vmodule\*O is the name of the SCCS file without
the \*Ls\&.\*O prefix.
.LI "\*Ln\*O"
Causes \*Ldelta\*O to create a null delta in any releases
that are skipped when a delta is made in a new release.  For example, if
you make delta 5.1 after delta 2.7, releases 3 and 4 will be null.
The resulting null deltas can serve as points from which to build branch
deltas.  Without this flag, skipped releases do not appear in the
SCCS file.
.LI "\*Lq\*Vtext\*O"
Substitutes \*Vtext\*O for all occurrences of the %\&Q%
keyword in an SCCS text file retrieved by a \*Lget\*O command.
.LI "\*Lt\*Vtype\*O"
Substitutes \*Vtype\*O for all occurrences of the %\&Y% keyword
in a g-file retrieved by \*Lget\*O.
.LI "\*Lv\*O[\*Vprogram\*O]"
Makes \*Ldelta\*O prompt for Modification Request (MR)
numbers as the reason for creating a delta.  The \*Vprogram\*O argument
specifies the name of an MR number validity checking program.  (See
the \*Ldelta\*O command.)  If \*Lv\*O is set in the SCCS file, the \*Ladmin
\-m\*O flag must also be used, even if its value is null.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.VL 3m
.LI
To create an empty SCCS file named \*Ls.test.c\*O, enter:
.iS
admin  \-n  s\&.test\&.c
.iE
.LI
To convert an existing text file into an SCCS file, enter:
.iS
admin \-itest.c s.test.c
.iE
.IP
The \*Ladmin\*O command responds with the message:
.iS
\*CThere are no SCCS identification keywords in the file. (cm7)
.iE
.sp
.IP
This message does not indicate an error.
.IP
To rename the original text file, enter:
.iS
mv oldname.c  newname.c
.iE
.IP
Identification keywords are variables that can be placed
in an SCCS file.  The values of these variables provide information,
such as date, time, SID, or file name.  See \*Lget\*O(1)
for an explanation of identification keywords.
.IP
Whether creating new files or converting an existing file, you can name
the SCCS file anything you like, as long as it begins with the \*Ls\&.\*O
prefix.  In
this example, the original file and the SCCS file have the
same name, but that is not required.
.LI
When you do not specify a release number, as in both of the
preceding examples,
\*Ladmin\*O gives the SCCS file an SID of 1.1.  SCCS does not use the number
0 to identify deltas.  Therefore, a file cannot have an SID of 1.0 or 2.1.1.0.
All new releases start with level 1.  To start the \*Ls.test.c\*O file with
a release number of 3, use the \*L\-r\*O flag with the \*Ladmin\*O
command, and enter:
.iS
admin \-itest.c \-r3 s.test.c
.iE
.LI
To restrict permission to change SCCS files to a specific set
of user IDs, list the user ID or group ID numbers in the user list
of the SCCS file with the \*L\-a\*O flag.  These IDs then appear in
the SCCS file header.  Without the \*L\-a\*O flag to
restrict access, all user IDs can change the SCCS files.
To restrict permissions to the user ID \*Ljulie\*O, enter:
.iS
admin \-ajulie s.test.c
.iE
.LI
Although SCCS provides some error protection, you might need to
recover a file that was accidentally damaged.  This damage can result
from a system malfunction, operator error, or changing an SCCS file
without using SCCS commands.
.IP
SCCS commands use the checksum to determine whether a file was
changed since it was last used.  The only SCCS command that processes
a damaged file is the \*Ladmin\*O command when used with the
\*L\-h\*O or \*L\-z\*O flag.  The \*L\-h\*O flag tells \*Ladmin\*O to
compare the checksum stored in the SCCS file header against the computed
checksum.  The \*L\-z\*O flag tells \*Ladmin\*O to recompute
the checksum and store it in the file header.
.IP
Check the SCCS files for possible damage on a regular basis.
For example, enter:
.iS
admin \-h s.file1  s.file2 ...
admin \-h directory1  directory2  ...
.iE
.IP
If \*Ladmin\*O finds a file where the computed checksum is
not equal to the checksum listed in the SCCS file header, it displays
the message of the form:
.iS
\*C[s.\*Vfile\*C]: The file is damaged. (co6)
.\" \*CUse local problem reporting procedures. (co6)
.iE
.\" .IP
.\" (System output appears on one line, not on two as shown here.)
.LI
If a file is damaged, try to edit the file again, or read a backup
copy.  After fixing the file, run the \*Ladmin\*O command with the
\*L\-z\*O flag and the repaired file name by entering:
.iS
admin \-z s.file
.iE
.IP
This operation replaces the old checksum in the SCCS file header
with a new checksum based on the repaired file contents.  Other SCCS
commands can now process the file.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcdc\*O(1), \*Lcomb\*O(1), \*Ldelta\*O(1),
\*Led\*O(1), \*Lget\*O(1), \*Lprs\*O(1), \*Lrmdel\*O(1),
\*Lsact\*O(1), \*Lsccs\*O(1), \*Lsccsdiff\*O(1), \*Lsccshelp\*O(1),
\*Lunget\*O(1), \*Lval\*O(1), \*Lwhat\*O(1)
.PP
Files:  \*Lsccsfile\*O(4).
.\" .PP 
.\" "Controlling File Revisions with SCCS" in the \*(Ga.
.PP
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
