.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: alex.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:23:22 $
.\"
.TH alex 1
.SH NAME
alex \- extract addresses from message headers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B alex
[
\*V+folder\*O
] [
\*Vmsgs\*O
] [
\*Voptions\*O
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "alex command"
.iX "extracting addresses from message header"
The address line extraction utility \*Lalex\*O extracts electronic mail
addresses from message headers and prints the addresses on your screen or
places them, with a  specified alias name, in an alias file.
.PP
By default, \*Lalex\*O searches for addresses in the current message  in the
current folder. You can list the messages you wish \*Lalex\*O to search giving
a
\*Vmsgs\*O
argument.
You can also search messages in a different folder
by giving a
\*V+folder\*O
argument.
.PP
You define the fields from which you want addresses by using
combinations of field names with the
.B \-field
option.
You can also supply an address yourself as a value to the
.B \-address
option.
Results are printed either to your screen or to a file in \*Lmh-alias\*O(4)
format.  Where there is an address group in the alias file with an alias name
identical to one you have specified in an \*Lalex\*O command, it may be
replaced  or the new addresses appended.  A copy of the original alias file is
kept.
.PP
By default, \*Lalex\*O searches the \*LReply-to:\*O, \*LSender:\*O,
\*LFrom:\*O and \*LTo:\*O header fields in that order until an address is
found. You can set up your own default values for \*Lalex\*O in your
\*L\&.mh_profile\*O file; see \*Lmh_profile\*O(4).
.PP
When giving options to the \*Lalex\*O command, generally the shortest unique
abbreviation suffices.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP "\-address \f2string\f1" 10
Accepts an address that you type in, rather than taking
an address from a message.
If any
.B \-field
option is specified, it is ignored.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-alias \f2filename\f1"
Specifies the name of the alias file, in which
aliases are placed.
You must provide a file name or a dash (\*L-\*O)
as an argument with this option.
There is no default value.
If the value given for this option is \*L-\*O,
or the option is not specified, \*Lalex\*O will print the output to
your screen.  If you do not give the full pathname of your alias file,
\*Lalex\*O will look for the alias file in your Mail directory,
as specified in the \*LPath\*O
field of your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O file.
If \*Lalex\*O cannot locate the alias file in the directory that you specify,
it will ask you whether or not you wish to create one.
.IP
You can set up an alias file to be used by \*Lalex\*O in your
\*L\&.mh_profile\*O; see \*Lmh_profile\*O(4) for more information.
Like other mail commands, \*Lalex\*O uses the \*LAliasfile\*O entry to find
the alias file.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-compress 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nocompress 10
.PD
Prevents any repetition of the same address in the output of an \*Lalex\*O
command.  You can use this option when there are multiple  occurrences of an
address in an address group and you want just one  occurrence of it in your
alias. The default is
.B \-nocompress.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-field \f2name\f1[\f2 /name ... \f1]" 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nofield
.PD
Specifies the name of a header field.
The name of the field is not case-sensitive.
If you specify this option without providing an argument,
the default values are:
.B \-field
\f3reply-to/sender/from/to\f1.
You can set up your own default values for the
.B \-field
option in your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O. See \*Lmh_profile\*O(4).
.IP
Examples of field names are
\*LFrom\*O, \*Lcc\*O and \*LTo\*O.
You must not type a colon after the name of a field.
When more field names follow, in the form \f2/name\f1,
the message header is searched for each of the fields in turn
until one is found.
Only the first header field found to contain an address
is used; the rest are ignored.
.IP
The option
.B \-nofield
excludes the named field.
.IP
The special name, \f3all\f1,
means all fields, and can be used as a value
for the
.B \-nofield
option to override any default order of header fields, otherwise
.B \-field
values are appended to any default values.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.IP \-global
Specifies that any address replacements or appendings will
apply to all occurrences of that alias name.
Normally, if an alias name is entered in the alias file more than once,
any actions performed by \*Lalex\*O are performed only on the first
occurrence of that alias name.
The
.B \-global
option ensures that any changes are made to all occurrences
of the alias.
Whenever this option is specified, a message is broadcast to your
screen telling you how many entries in the alias file have been
changed.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-help
Prints a list of the valid options for this command.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-name \f2name\f1"
Specifies the alias name for address information extracted.
The \*Lalex\*O command appends a colon (:) to the name as required by
\*Lmh-alias\*O(4).
If you do not specify this option,\*Lalex\*O will print extracted addresses
to your screen.  If you specify this option, you must provide an argument;
there is no default value.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-query 10
.PD 0
.IP \-noquery 10
.PD
Extracts addresses interactively.
Before adding each address of a list of extracted addresses
to an alias group, the mail system will ask you
whether you wish the address to be added.
The query prompt is written on the standard error output.
The default is
\f3\-noquery\f1.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-replace 10
.PD 0
.IP \-noreplace 10
.PD
Replaces existing alias with the new list of addresses.
By default, if there is an existing alias with the same name
as the one you are trying to create, \*Lalex\*O appends the new address
list to the old alias.
If an address appears in both address groups, it is
still appended, so that it appears twice in the new alias.
You can specify this explicitly by using the
.B \-noreplace
option.
If you specify the
.B \-replace
option, the new list of addresses replaces the existing group.
The default is
.B \-noreplace.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-width \f2n\f1"
Specifies the maximum width of your alias file line.
If an alias group extends beyond this length,
it is continued on the next line, with a
backslash (\e) at end of the first line.
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT SECTION BELOW
.ig
Any X.400 addresses which are longer than the maximum line length
specified by this option are automatically wrapped onto the next line.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTED SECTION
.\"
This option affects the format of each individual entry when it is
implemented; any subsequent or previous entries in the alias file
remain the same.
The default is 72 characters.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Because the
.B \-nofield
option can take the value
.B all
as an argument, \*Lalex\*O will not recognize a header field called
\*LAll\*O.  If you wish to use such a header field, you should call it
\*LX-all\*O.
.PP
If a command line contains contradictory arguments
then the last value specified is used.
For example, in the following command, \*Lalex\*O only uses the options
.B \-name\ fred
and \f3\-noreplace\f1:
.oS
% \f(CBalex -name sam -name fred -replace -noreplace
.oE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
This example takes the address from the \*LFrom\*O field
of the current message, and places it in your alias file
with the alias name \*Lbob\*O:
.oS
% \f(CBalex -field from -alias aliases -name bob
.oE
.PP
The following example shows what happens
if you specify an alias file that does not exist.
You are asked whether you want to create the file;
enter \*Ly\*O to create it:
.oS
% \f(CBalex -field from -name bob -alias aliases\f(CW
Create alias file "HOME/Mail/aliases"? \f(CBy\f(CW
.oE
.PP
The next example takes addresses from two fields,
\*LFrom\*O and \*Lcc\*O,
and saves them as the alias \*Lsales_team\f1:
.oS
% \f(CBalex -field from -field cc -alias aliases -name sales_team
.oE
.\"
.\" ************************************************
.\" COMMENTED OUT - need .mh_profile defaults adding
.ig
.PP
The next example shows how you can use the
.B \-nofield
option to override the default fields that are matched.
By default, \*Lalex\*O
looks for an address in the following fields of a message:
\f(CWReply-to\f1,
\f(CWSender\f1,
\f(CWFrom\f1,
\f(CWTo\f1.
If you want to take an address from the \f(CWTo\f1 field only,
you can use
.B \-nofield
to ignore the other fields, as follows:
.oS
% \f(CBalex -nofield reply-to -nofield sender -nofield from
.oE
Alternatively, you can use the special value
.B all
with
.B \-nofield
to disable all the default fields.
Then you can use the
.B \-field
option to specify the field that you do want to match.
For example, the following command overrides all the default fields,
and then takes the addresses from the \f(CWTo\f1 field:
.oS
% \f(CBalex -nofield all -field to
.oE
..
.\" ************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L$HOME/.mh_profile\*O
Your user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lali\*O(1), \*Lmh\*O(1), \*Lpick\*O(1), \*Lmh-alias\*O(4),
\*Lmh_profile\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
