.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ali.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:23:35 $
.\"
.TH ali 1
.SH NAME
ali \- list mail aliases
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B ali
[
.B \-alias
\*Valiasfile\*O
] [
.B \-help
] [
.B \-[no]list
] [
.B \-[no]normalize
] [
.B \-user
\*Vuseraddr\*O
] [
.B \-nouser
] [
\*Valiases ...\*O
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ali command"
.iX "mail aliases" "listing"
The \*Lali\*O command searches the specified mail alias files
for each of the given aliases.
It creates a list of addresses for those aliases,
and displays that list on the screen.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP "\-alias \f2aliasfile\f3" 10
Specifies the alias file to be consulted by \*Lali\*O.
You can specify more than one alias file, but each
\*Valiasfile\*O
must be preceded by
.BR \-alias .
In addition to any alias files that you specify, \*Lali\*O consults
the system alias file
\*L/usr/lib/mh/MailAliases\*O.
.IP
You can set up an entry in your
\*L\&.mh_profile\*O
so that \*Lali\*O automatically consults an alias file.
To do this, add the
\*LAliasfile\*O
entry to your profile.
See \*Lmh_profile\*O(4) for more information.
.\"
.IP "\-help" 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.IP "\-list" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-nolist" 10
.PD
Prints the addresses on separate lines.
If you do not specify the
.B \-list
option, the addresses are separated by commas and printed on
as few lines as possible.
.\"
.IP "\-normalize" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-nonormalize" 10
.PD
Instructs \*Lali\*O to try to track down the official hostname of the address.
This can be suppressed by using
.BR \-nonormalize .
The default is
.BR \-nonormalize .
.\"
.IP "\-user \f2useraddr\f3" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-nouser" 10
.PD
Displays all the aliases that contain a specific name.
Instead of listing the addresses that each given alias expands to,
\*Lali\*O lists the aliases that expand to include each given address.
You must specify the
complete user name that you have used in your alias file.
.PP
The defaults for this command are:
.IP
.B "\-alias /usr/lib/mh/MailAliases"
.br
.B \-nolist
.br
.B \-nonormalize
.br
.B \-nouser
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example shows how the
.B \-user
option can be used to list all the aliases containing the address
\*LParker@Venus\*O:
.oS
% \f(CBali \-user Parker@Venus\f(CW
Parker@Venus: Group, Reviewers, Badminton
.oE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+Location of your Mail directory.
Aliasfile:+Location of your personal alias file.
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L$HOME/.mh_profile
The user profile.
.TP 10
\*L/usr/lib/mh/MailAliases\*O
The system alias file.
.TP 10
\*L/etc/passwd\*O
The system password file.
.TP 10
\*L/etc/group\*O
The system group file.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lmh-alias\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
