.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: anno.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:23:45 $
.\"
.TH anno 1
.SH NAME
anno \- annotate messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B anno
[
\*V+folder\*O
] [
\*Vmsgs\*O
] [
.B "\-component"
\*Vfield\*O
] [
.B "\-help"
] [
.B "\-[no]inplace"
] [
.B \-text
\*Vbody\*O
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "anno command"
.iX "annotating messages"
The \*Lanno\*O command annotates a message by adding
one or more header fields to the message.
.PP
The \*Lanno\*O command allows you to choose the name of the header field
which you add.
It records the date at which the message is annotated,
and allows you to add an additional field containing text,
if you wish.
.PP
You can use \*Lanno\*O with \*Ldist\*O, \*Lforw\*O, and \*Lrepl\*O, to keep
track of how you have distributed, forwarded, or replied to messages.
.PP
By default, \*Lanno\*O annotates the current message in the current folder.
You can select another message by using the
\*Vmsg\*O
and
\*V+folder\*O
arguments.
You can also annotate more than one message,
or a range of messages.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP "\-component \f2field\fP" 10
Specifies the name of the header field which \*Lanno\*O adds.
It should be a valid RFC 822-style message field name,
which means that it should consist of alphanumeric characters
or dashes only.
If you do not supply this option, \*Lanno\*O will prompt you for the
field name.
.\"
.IP "\-help" 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.IP "\-inplace" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noinplace" 10
.PD
The
.B \-inplace
switch causes annotation to be done in place in order
to preserve links to the annotated message.
.\"
.IP "\-text \f2body\fP" 10
Allows you to add a header field containing text to the message.
The \*Lanno\*O command will create a second header field on the message,
containing the text that you specify.
If the text contains a space, you must enclose the text
in double quotes (").
If you do not supply this option, \*Lanno\*O adds only one field,
which contains the date of the annotation.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The default settings for this command are:
.IP
\*V+folder\*O
defaults to the current folder
.br
\*Vmsgs \*O
defaults to the current message
.br
.B \-noinplace
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
This example annotates message number 1 in the folder
\*L+test\*O.  The
.B \-component
option specifies the name of the header field:
.oS
% \f(CBanno 1 +test -component Forwarded\fP
.oE
The following field is added to the message header:
.oS
Forwarded: Tue, 08 Jan 91 16:10:06 +0000
.oE
.PP
The next example shows how to use the
.B \-text
option to add an additional field:
.oS
% \f(CBanno -component Forwarded -text "to David - as requested"\fP
.oE
The following lines are added to the message header:
.oS
Forwarded: Tue, 08 Jan 91 16:13:27 +0000
Forwarded: to David - as requested
.oE
.PP
The final example shows how \*Lanno\*O prompts for the name
of the header field, if the
.B \-component
option is not supplied:
.oS
% \f(CBanno\f(CW
Enter component name: \f(CBforwarded\fP
.oE
The following line is added to the message:
.oS
forwarded: Tue, 08 Jan 91 16:21:58 +0000
.oE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine your Mail directory
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L$HOME/\&.mh_profile\*O
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Ldist\*O(1), \*Lforw\*O(1), \*Lrepl\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
