.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: apply.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/20 13:43:39 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH apply 1
.SH NAME
\*Lapply\*O \- Applies a command to a set of arguments
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lapply\*O
[
\*L-a\*Vcharacter\*O]
\*O[\*V-number\*O]
\*Vcommand\*O
\*Vargument\*O
\&...
.sE
.PP
The \*Lapply\*O command runs the specified \*Vcommand\*O
on each \*Vargument\*O in turn.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "apply command"
.iX "arguments" "applying a command"
.iX "commands" "applying to arguments"
.PP
Normally, arguments are chosen individually; the optional \*Vnumber\*O
specifies the number of arguments to be passed to \*Vcommand\*O.
If \*Vnumber\*O is 0 (zero),
\*Vcommand\*O is run without arguments once for each
argument.
.PP
If you include character sequences of the form \*L%\*Vn\*O (where
\*Vn\*O is a digit from 1 to 9) in \*Vcommand\*O,
they are replaced by the \*Vn\*Oth unused \*Vargument\*O following
\*Vcommand\*O when \*Vcommand\*O is executed.
If any such sequences occur, \*Vnumber\*O is ignored,
and the number of arguments passed to \*Vcommand\*O
is the maximum value of \*Vn\*O in \*Vcommand\*O.
.PP
You can specify a character other than \*L%\*O (percent sign) to designate
argument substitution character strings with the \*L-a\*O flag; for example,
\*L-a@\*O would indicate that the sequences \*L@1\*O and \*L@2\*O were to be
replaced by the first and second unused arguments following \*Vcommand\*O.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-a\*Vcharacter\*O"
Identifies the character used instead of the % (percent sign) to designate
argument substitution strings.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" The following line is being commented out per the answer to QAR 5980.
.\" (\*Vcharacter\*O can be a two-byte extended character.)
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.LI "\*V-number\*O"
Specifies the number of arguments to be passed to \*Vcommand\*O.
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
Shell metacharacters in
\*Vcommand\*O
may have undesirable effects; it is best to enclose complicated
commands in \*L'  '\*O (single quotes).
.PP
There is no way to pass a \*L%\*O (percent sign) followed immediately by
any number if \*L%\*O is the argument expansion character.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.VL 3m
.LI
The following command is similar to \*Lls\*O:
.iS
apply echo *
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
The following command
compares the file \*La1\*O to the file \*Lb1\*O, \*La2\*O to
\*Lb2\*O, and so on:
.iS
apply -2 cmp a1 b1 a2 b2 ...
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
The following command runs \*Lwho\*O 5 times:
.iS
apply -0 who 1 2 3 4 5
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
The following command
links all files in the current directory to the directory \*L/usr/joe\*O:
.iS
apply 'ln %1 /usr/joe' *
\*O\c
.iE
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lsh\*O(1), \*Lxargs\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
