.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: appres.1X,v $ $Revision: 1.2.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/17 23:53:33 $
.\" 
.TH appres 1X "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
appres - list application resource database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "appres"
[[class [instance]] [-1] [toolkitoptions] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \f2appres\fP program prints the resources seen by an application
(or subhierarchy of an application) with the specified \f2class\fP and
\f2instance\fP names.  It can be used to determine which
resources a particular program will load.  For example,
.sp 1
.in +.5i
.nf
% appres XTerm
.fi
.in -.5i
.sp 1
will list the resources that any \f2xterm\fP program will load.
If no application class is specified, the class \f2-AppResTest-\fP is used.
.PP
To match a particular instance name, specify an instance name
explicitly after the class name, or use the normal Xt toolkit option.
For example,
.sp 1
.in +.5i
.nf
% appres XTerm myxterm
.fi
.in -.5i
or
.in +.5i
.nf
% appres XTerm -name myxterm
.fi
.in -.5i
.PP
To list resources that match a subhierarchy of an application, specify
hierarchical class and instance names.  The number of class and instance
components must be equal, and the instance name should not be
specified with a toolkit option.  For example,
.sp 1
.in +.5i
.nf
% appres Xman.TopLevelShell.Form xman.topBox.form
.fi
.in -.5i
.sp 1
will list the resources of widgets of \f2xman\fP topBox hierarchy.
To list just the resources matching a specific level in the hierarchy,
use the \-1 option.  For example,
.sp 1
.in +.5i
.nf
% appres XTerm.VT100 xterm.vt100 -1
.fi
.in -.5i
.sp 1
will list the resources matching the \f2xterm\fP vt100 widget.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
X(1X), xrdb(1X), listres(1X)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1989, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \f2X(1X)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Jim Fulton, MIT X Consortium
.EQ
delim off
.EN
