.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: apropos.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/16 19:47:58 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH apropos 1
.SH NAME
\*Lapropos\*O \- Locates reference pages by keyword
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lapropos\*O
\*Vkeyword\*O
\&...
.sE
.PP
The \*Lapropos\*O command shows which reference pages contain instances
.gL "reference page"
of any of the given keywords in their purpose lines.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 7m
.LI "\*Vkeyword\*O ..."
Specifies the word(s) for which \*Lapropos\*O should search.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "apropos command"
.iX "keywords"
.iX "finding" "commands by keyword"
.iX "commands" "finding by keyword"
.PP
In looking for keywords, \*Lapropos\*O considers each word separately and
ignores the case of letters. Words that are part of other words are
also considered; thus, when looking for the word \*Lcompile\*O,
\*Lapropos\*O will also find all instances of \*Lcompiler\*O.
.PP
If the output of the \*Lapropos\*O command begins with a name and
reference section number, you can enter
.gL "reference section"
\*Lman\*O \*Vsection\*O \*Vname\*O.
For example, if the output of the \*Lapropos\*O command is
\*Lmake(1u)\*O, you can enter \*Lman 1u make\*O to
obtain the reference page on System V version of the \*Lmake\*O command.
.PP
The \*Lapropos\*O command works just like the \*Lman\*O command with the
\*L-k\*O flag.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To find reference pages with the keyword \*Lpassword\*O in the purpose line,
enter:
.iS
apropos password
\*O\c
.iE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 12m
.LI "\*L/usr/share/man/whatis\*O"
Keyword database.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lman\*O(1), \*Lwhatis\*O(1), \*Lcatman\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
