.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ar.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/21 16:33:11 $
.\" 
.\" -----------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.  All Rights |
.\" | Reserved. 	                                |
.\" -----------------------------------------------------
.\" $Header: /usr/doc/osf1doc/refpages/rcs/src/BASE/DEC/man1/ar.1,v 3.2.6.2 1993/12/21 16:33:11 Jeff_Mandell Exp $
.TH ar 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lar\*O \- archive and library maintainer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "ar command"
.sS
\*Lar\*O
[\*Lmrxtdpqhw\*O] [\*Luvcbailosz\*O] [\*Vposname | tempdir\*O] \*Larchive\*O \*Vfile1\*O ... \*VfileN\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The archiver (\*Lar\*O) maintains groups of files as a single archive file.
Generally, you use this utility to
create and update library files that the link editor uses; however, you
can use the archiver for any similar purpose.
.\" Commented out per mjr
.\" \*LNOTE\*O:
.\" This version uses a portable ASCII-format archive that you can use 
.\" on various machines that run UNIX.
.PP
In the text, option refers to a character (from the set \*Lmrxtdpqhw\*O)
that you can concatenate with one or more of \*Luvcbailosz\*O .
A suboption refers to options (from the set \*Luvcbailosz\*O) that you can only
use with other options.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
The following list describes the options:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lm\*O"
Moves the specified files to the end of the archive.
If you specify a positioning character, you must also specify the
\*Vposname\*O (as in option \*Lr\*O)
to tell the archiver where to move the files.
.LI "\*Lr\*O"
Replaces the specified files in the archive file.
If you use the suboption
\*Lu\*O with \*Lr\*O,
the archiver only replaces those files that have `last-modified' dates later
than the archive files.
If you use a positioning character (from the set
\*Labi\*O) you must specify the \*Vposname\*O
argument to tell the archiver to put the new files
after (\*La\*O) or before (\*Lb\*O or \*Li\*O).
Otherwise, the archiver puts
new files at the end of the archive.
.LI "\*Lx\*O"
Extracts the specified files from the archive.
If you do not specify any file names, the archiver extracts all files.
When it extracts files, the archiver does not change any file.
Normally, the `last-modified' date for each
extracted file shows the date when someone extracted it; however, when
you use \*Lo\*O,
the archiver resets the `last-modified' date to the date recorded in the
archive.
.LI "\*Lt\*O"
Prints a table of contents for the files in the archive file.
If you do not specify any file names, the archiver builds a table
of contents for all files.
If you specify file names, the archiver builds a table of contents only
for those files.
.LI "\*Ld\*O"
Deletes the specified files from the archive file.
.LI "\*Lp\*O"
Prints the specified files from the archive.
.LI "\*Lq\*O"
Appends the specified files to the end of the archive file.
The archiver does not accept suboption positioning characters with the
\*Lq\*O option.  It also does not check whether the files you want to
add already exist in the archive.  Use the \*Lq\*O option
only to avoid quadratic behavior when you create a large
archive piece by piece.
.LI "\*Lh\*O"
Sets the file modification times in the member headers of the named
files to the current date and time. If you do not specify any filenames,
\*Lar\*O sets the time stamps of all member headers.
.LI "\*Lw\*O"
Displays the archive symbol table.  Each symbol is listed with the name
of the archive member which defines the symbol.
.LE
.PP
The following list describes the suboptions:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*La\*O"
Specifies that the file goes after the existing file (\*Vposname\*O).
Use this suboption with the \*Lm\*O or \*Lr\*O options.
.LI "\*Lb\*O"
Specifies that the file goes before the existing file (\*Vposname\*O).
Use this suboption with the \*Lm\*O or \*Lr\*O options.
.LI "\*Lc\*O"
Suppresses the normal message that the archiver prints when
it creates the specified archive file.  Normally, the archiver creates
the specified archiver file when it needs to. The \*Lc\*O flag is a
suboption of the \*Lr\*O and \*Lq\*O options.
.LI "\*Li\*O"
Specifies that the file goes before the existing file (\*Vposname\*O).
Use this suboption with the \*Lm\*O or \*Lr\*O options.
.LI "\*Ll\*O"
Places temporary files in the local directory.  If the \*Ll\*O option is
not used then the value of the environment symbol, \*LTMPDIR\*O, is used
as the directory for temporary files.  If \*LTMPDIR\*O is not defined or
if the directory it references is not writable then \*L\/tmp\*O is used.
.LI "\*Lo\*O"
Forces a newly created file to have the `last modified' date that
it had before it was extracted from the archive.  Use this suboption with the
\*Lx\*O option.
.LI "\*Ls\*O"
Makes a symbol definition (symdef file) as the first file of an archive.
This file contains a hash table of \*Vranlib\*O
structures and a corresponding string table. If you change the
archive contents, the symdef file becomes
obsolete because the archive file's name changes. The
\*Lar\*O command builds the symbol table by default.
Archives include member
objects based on the definition of a common object only.
.LI "\*Lu\*O"
Prevents the archiver from replacing an existing file unless the replacement
is newer than the existing file.  This option uses the UNIX system `last
modified' date for this comparison.  Use this suboption with the \*Lr\*O
option.
.LI "\*Lv\*O"
Gives a verbose file-by-file description as the archiver makes a
new archive file from an old archive and its constituent files.
When you use this option with \*Lt\*O,
the archiver lists all information about the files in the archive.
When you use this option with \*Lp\*O, the archiver
precedes each file with a name.
.LI "\*Lz\*O"
Suppresses symbol table building.
.LE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
If you specify the same file twice in an argument list,
it can appear twice in the archive file.
.PP
The \*Lo\*O option does not change the `last-modified' date of a file
unless you own the extracted file or you are the super-user.
.PP
The \*Ls\*O option is not operative as \*Lar\*O will always build the
hash table by default unless the \*Lz\*O option is specified.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 13m
.LI "\*V/tmp/v*\*O"
Temporary files
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Llorder\*O(1), \*Lld\*O(1),
.\" \*Lranhash\*O(3X),
\*Lar\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
