.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: asa.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/22 18:37:21 $
.\"
.TH asa 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lasa\*O \- Interpret carriage-control characters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lasa\*O
\*O[\*Vfile\*O\ \&...\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
None
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "asa command"
.iX "files" "interpret carriage-control characters"
.iX "printing" "fortran program output"
The \*Lasa\*O command writes its input files to standard output, mapping
carriage-control characters from the text files to line-printer control
sequences.
.PP
The first character of every input line is removed and, depending
on the character removed, an action performed on that character
and the rest of the line.
If the character removed is:
.PP
.VL 8m
.LI "space"
The rest of the line is output without change.
.LI "\*L0\*O"
A newline character is output, followed by the rest of the input line.
.LI "\*L1\*O"
A form-feed character is output, followed by the rest of the input line.
.LI "\*L+\*O"
The newline character of the previous line is replaced with a
carriage-return character, which is output,
followed by the rest of the input line. If
\*L+\*O is the first character in the input, \*L+\*O has the same effect as
the space character.
.LI "other"
The character is output, followed by the rest of the input line.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To view a \*Lfile\*O (created by a program using FORTRAN-style carriage control
characters) on a terminal:
.IP
.iS
asa file
.iE
.LI
To format the FORTRAN output of \*La.out\*O and direct it to the printer:
.IP
.iS
a.out | asa | lp
.iE
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Llp\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
