.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: at.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.6.10 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/13 12:38:41 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.TH at 1
.SH NAME
\*Lat\*O, \*Lbatch\*O \- Runs commands at a later time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*Lat\*O
\*O[\*L\-c\*O
|
\*L\-s\*O
|
\*L\-k\*O]
\*O[\*L\-m\*O]
\*O[\*L\-f \*Vfile\*O]
\*O[\*L\-q \*Vqueuename\*O]
\*Vtime\*O
\*O[\*Vdate\*O]
\*O[\*L+\*Vincrement\*O]
\*O[\*Vcommand\*O
|
\*Vfile\*O]
\&...
.in -.5i
.PP
\*Lat\*O
\*O[\*L\-c\*O
|
\*L\-s\*O
|
\*L\-k\*O]
\*O[\*L\-m\*O]
\*O[\*L\-f \*Vfile\*O]
\*O[\*L\-q \*Vqueuename\*O]
\*L\-t\*O
\*O[[\*Vcc\*O]\*Vyy\*O]\*VMMddhhmm\*O[\*L.\*Vss\*O]
.PP
\*Lat\*O
\*L\-l\*O
\*L\-o\*O
\*O[\*L\-q \*Vqueuename\*O]
\*O[\*Vuser\*O \&.\&.\&.]
.PP
\*Lat\*O
\*L\-l\*O
\*O[\*Vjob_number\*O]
.PP
\*Lat\*O
\*L\-r\*O
\*O[\*L\-Fi\*O]
\*Vjob_number\*O
\&...
|
\*O[\*L\-u\*O
\*Vuser\*O]
.PP
\*Lat\*O
\*L\-n\*O [\*Vuser\*O]
.PP
\*Lbatch\*O
.sE
.PP
The \*Lat\*O and \*Lbatch\*O commands read from standard input or accept
as arguments the names of commands to be run at a later time.
The \*Lat\*O command allows you to specify when the commands are to be run.
The \*Lbatch\*O command runs jobs when the system load level permits.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "at command"
.iX "batch command"
.iX "scheduling commands"
.iX "running" "scheduled commands"
.iX "commands" "scheduling"
.PP
Both \*Lat\*O and \*Lbatch\*O mail you the standard output
and standard error from the scheduled commands, unless
you redirect that output.  They also write the job number and the
scheduled time to standard error.
.PP
If a filename specified on an \*Lat\*O command line
is executable (that is, has the \*Lx\*O permission for
the user in question), \*Lat\*O assumes that it is a command and
the job consists of this command only.  If the file is not executable,
\*Lat\*O assumes that you want its contents to be the instructions
for the job (same as BSD \*Lat\*O).  If \*Lat\*O cannot find the file
at all, the specification is passed to the date parser.  If the
specification is not recognized by the date parser,
the user receives the error \*CUnknown word\*O.
.PP
The \*Lat\*O command defaults to the Bourne shell. Use the \*V-c\*O
option to specify the cshell, or the \*V-k\*O option to specify the Korn
shell. Variables in the shell environment, the current directory,
\*Lumask\*O, and \*Lulimit\*O are retained when the commands
run. The value of SHELL is set to be consistent with the shell actually
used. Open file descriptors, traps, and priority are lost.
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.\" Massive clarification per QAR 8636
You can use \*Lat\*O if your login name appears in the
\*L/usr/lib/cron/at.allow\*O file, if that file exists, or if there is
no \*Lat.allow\*O file and your name is not in the
\*L/usr/lib/cron/at.deny\*O file.
The \*Lat.allow\*O and \*Lat.deny\*O files contain one username per
line. Note that \*L/usr/lib/cron\*O is symbolically linked to
\*L/var/adm/cron\*O.
.PP
If neither the \*Lat.allow\*O nor the \*Lat.deny\*O file exists, only
someone with root user authority
can submit a job.
.PP
To allow global access to \*Lat\*O, the system administrator can remove
the \*Lat.allow\*O file and create a zero-length \*Lat.deny\*O file.
.\" End Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.PP
The required \*Vtime\*O argument can be one of the following:
.AL
.LI
A number followed by an optional suffix.  \*Lat\*O interprets
1- and 2-digit numbers as hours.  It interprets 4 digits as hours
and minutes.  The \*LLC_TIME\*O environment variable specifies the
order of hours and minutes.  The default order is the hour followed by
the minute.
You can also separate hours and minutes with a : (colon).
The default order is \*Vhour\*O:\*Vminute\*O.
In addition, you can specify a suffix of \*Lam\*O,
\*Lpm\*O, or \*Lzulu\*O.  If you do not specify \*Lam\*O
or \*Lpm\*O, \*Lat\*O uses a 24-hour clock.  The suffix
\*Lzulu\*O indicates that the time is UTC (Coordinated Universal Time).
.LI
The \*Lat\*O command also recognizes the following keywords as special
times:  \*Lnoon\*O, \*Lmidnight\*O,
\*Lnow\*O, \*LA\*O for a.m., \*LP\*O for p.m.,
\*LN\*O for noon, and \*LM\*O for midnight.
Otherwise, \*Lat\*O tells you: \*Ctoo late\*O.
The \*LLC_TIME\*O environment variable controls the additional
keywords that \*Lat\*O recognizes.
.LE
.PP
You can specify the \*Vdate\*O argument as either a month name
and a day number (and possibly a year number preceded by a
comma), or a day of the week.
The \*LLC_TIME\*O environment variable specifies the order of the
month name and day number (by default, month followed by day).
\*Lat\*O recognizes two special days, \*Ltoday\*O and
\*Ltomorrow\*O by default.  \*Ltoday\*O is the
default date if the specified time is
later than the current hour; \*Ltomorrow\*O is the default if the
time is earlier than the current hour.  If the specified month is less
than the current month (and a year is not given), next year is the
default year.  The optional \*Vincrement\*O can be one of the
following:
.ML
.LI
A \(pl (plus sign) followed by a number and one of the following
words:  \*Lminute[s]\*O, \*Lhour[s\*O],
\*Lday[s\*O], \*Lweek[s\*O],
\*Lmonth[s\*O], \*Lyear[s\*O]
(or their non-English equivalents).
.LI
The special word \*Lnext\*O followed by one of the following
words:  \*Lminute[s]\*O, \*Lhour[s]\*O,
\*Lday[s]\*O, \*Lweek[s]\*O,
\*Lmonth[s]\*O, \*Lyear[s]\*O
(or their non-English equivalents).
.LE
.PP
Job numbers are specified as follows:
.PP
\*Vuser\*L.\*Vxxxxxxxxx\*L.\*Vy\*O
.PP
The \*Vuser\*O argument
identifies the user who scheduled the job.  \*Vxxxxxxxxx\*O
is a 9-digit number (encoded time for the job).
\*Vy\*O indicates the job type or queue name as follows:
.VL
.LI "\*LArgument\*O"
\*LJob Type\*O
.LI "\*La\*O"
\*Lat\*O job
.LI "\*Lb\*O"
\*Lbatch\*O job
.LI "\*Le\*O"
\*Lksh\*O job
.LI "\*Lf\*O"
\*Lcsh\*O job
.LE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-c\*O"
Requests that \*Lcsh\*O be used for executing this job.
.LI "\*L\-f \*Vfile\*O"
Specifies the file to be used as input instead of \*Lstdin\*O.
.LI "\*L\-F\*O"
Suppresses delete verification.
.LI "\*L\-i\*O"
Specifies interactive delete.
.LI "\*L\-k\*O"
Requests that \*Lksh\*O be used for executing this job.
.LI "\*L\-l\*O [\*Vuser\*O \&.\&.\&.]"
Reports your scheduled jobs.
If the root user issues the command with this flag, all of the queued
\*Lat\*O commands are listed with the name of the user who issued each one.
The root user can also request a report of scheduled jobs for the
specified user only.
.LI "\*L\-m\*O"
Mails a message about the successful execution of the command.
(This is the default.)
.LI "\*L\-n\*O [\*Vuser\*O]"
Requests the number of files in the queue for the current user.
The root user can specify a different user with the \*Vuser\*O
argument.
.LI "\*L\-o\*O"
Lists jobs in scheduled order.  This flag is useful only when
used with the \*L\-l\*O flag.
.LI "\*L\-q \*Vqueuename\*O"
Specifies the queue you want to use.  When used with the \*L\-l\*O
flag, limits the search to the specified queue.  A queue name can
be specified by \*La\*L, \*Lb\*O, \*Le\*O, or \*Lf\*O, as described
in the \*LDESCRIPTION\*O section.
.LI "\*L\-r \*Vjob_number\*O \&.\&.\&."
Removes a job previously scheduled by \*Lat\*O or
\*Lbatch\*O, where \*Vjob_number\*O is the number assigned by
\*Lat\*O or \*Lbatch\*O.
If you do not have root user authority, you can remove only your
own jobs.  The \*Latrm\*O command is available to the root user to
remove jobs issued by other users or all jobs issued by a specific user.
This flag can be used in combination with the \*L\-i\*O, \*L\-f\*O,
and \*L\-u\*O flags.
.LI "\*L\-s\*O"
Requests that the Bourne shell be used for executing this job (default).
.LI "\*L\-t \*Vtime\*O"
Submits the job to be run at the specified time.
(See the \*LSYNOPSIS\*O section for the correct time format.)
.LI "\*L\-u\*O \*Vuser\*O"
Deletes all jobs for the specified user.  This flag must be used
with the \*L\-r\*O flag as follows:
.iS
at \-r \-u \*Vuser\*O
\*O\c
.iE
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To schedule a command from a terminal, enter a command similar to
one of the following:
.iS
at 5 pm Friday uuclean
at now next week uuclean
at now + 2 days uuclean
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
Note that the preceding commands can be scheduled as shown only if
\*Luuclean\*O is in the current directory.
.LI
To run \*Luuclean\*O at 3:00 in the afternoon on
January 24, enter any one of the following commands:
.iS
echo  uuclean  |  at  3:00  pm  January  24
echo  uuclean  |  at  3pm  Jan  24
echo  uuclean  |  at  1500  jan  24
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To list the jobs you have sent to be run later, enter:
.iS
at  \-l
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To cancel jobs, enter:
.iS
at  \-r  julie.586748399.a
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This cancels job \*Ljulie.586748399\*O.  Use \*Lat \-l\*O to list
the job numbers assigned to your jobs.
.LI
To execute a command when the system load level permits, enter:
.iS
batch
nroff infile > outfile
<Ctrl-d>
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
where
\*L<Ctrl-d>\*O is the End-of-File character.
.LE
.SS CAUTIONS
.IP
It is recommended that you
not use unspecified queues (queues other than \*La\*O, \*Lb\*O,
\*Le\*O, \*Lf\*O).  The results are unspecified.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 13m
.LI "\*L/var/lib/cron\*O"
Main \*Lcron\*O directory.
.LI "\*L/var/lib/cron/at.allow\*O"
List of allowed users.
.LI "\*L/var/lib/cron/at.deny\*O"
List of denied users.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/cron/atjobs\*O"
Spool area.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Latq\*O(1), \*Latrm\*O(1), \*Lcsh\*O(1), \*Lcron\*O(8), \*Lkill\*O(1),
\*Lmail\*O(1)/\*Lbinmail\*O(1), \*Lksh\*O(1), \*Lmailx\*O(1)/\*LMail\*O(1),
\*Lnice\*O(1), \*Lps\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1).
.PP
\*ESystem Administration\*O
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.\" Fixed book title references - cannot trace NOMAPped one, assume error
.PP
.\" "Customizing the System and Root Environments" in the %\&%\&NOMAP_DNOSysAdminGde_
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
.PP
.\" "Using Internationalization Features" in the 
\*ECommand and Shell User's Guide\*O
.\" End Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.EQ
delim off
.EN
