.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: atq.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/28 19:52:59 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.TH atq 1
.SH NAME
\*Latq\*O \- Prints the queue of jobs waiting to be run
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Latq\*O
\*O[\*L\-c\*O
|
\*L\-n\*O]
\*O[\*L\-q \*Vqueuename\*O]
\*O[\*Vuser\*O 
\*O\&...]
.sE 
.PP
The \*Latq\*O command prints the queue of jobs waiting to be run
at a later date.  These jobs were created with the \*Lat\*O command.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "atq command"
.iX "printing" "job queue"
.iX "job queue" "printing"
.iX "queues" "job"
.iX "displaying" "job queue"
.iX "job queue" "displaying"
.PP 
With no flags, the queue is sorted in the order that the jobs are to 
be executed.
.PP 
If the user is root and one or more usernames
is provided, only files belonging to those users are displayed.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-c\*O"
Sorts the queue by the time that the \*Lat\*O command was issued.
.LI "\*L\-n\*O" 
Prints only the number of files currently in the queue.
.LI "\*L\-q \*Vqueuename\*O"
Specifies the queue you want to use.
.LE 
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
In order to look at the queue created by the \*Lat\*O command, enter:
.iS
atq
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
If there are jobs in the queue, a message similar to the following is
displayed:
.iS
root.62169200.a		Tue Sep 12 11:00:00 1990
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The \*L.a\*O extension specifies an \*Lat\*O job.
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 14m
.LI "\*L/var/adm/cron\*O"
Main \*Lcron\*O directory.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/cron/at.allow\*O" 
List of allowed users.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/cron/at.deny\*O" 
List of denied users.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/cron/atjobs\*O" 
Spool area.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands: \*Lat\*O(1), \*Latrm\*O(1), \*Lcron\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
