.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: atrm.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/28 19:53:09 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.TH atrm 1
.SH NAME
\*Latrm\*O \- Removes jobs spooled by \*Lat\*O
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Latrm\*O
\*O[\*L\-a\*O]
\*O[\*L\-f\*O
|
\*L\-i\*O]
\*O[\*Vjob_number\*O
\&...]
|
\*O[\*Vuser\*O
\&...]
.sE 
.PP
The \*Latrm\*O command removes jobs that were created with the 
\*Lat\*O command.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "atrm command"
.iX "removing" "spooled jobs"
.iX "jobs" "removing"
.iX "spooled jobs" "removing"
.PP 
If one or more job numbers is specified, \*Latrm\*O
attempts to remove only those jobs.
.PP 
If one or more usernames is specified, all
jobs belonging to those users are removed.
This form of invoking \*Latrm\*O is useful only if you have
superuser authority.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-a\*O"
Removes all jobs belonging to the person invoking \*Latrm\*O.  If
invoked by a privileged user, all jobs on the queue are removed.
.LI "\*L\-f\*O" 
Suppresses the printing of all information about the jobs being removed.
.LI "\*L\-i\*O" 
Prompts before a job is removed; a response of \*Ly\*O, or the
locale's equivalent of \*Ly\*O, causes
the job to be removed.
.LI "\*L\-\*O"
Obsolete version of \*L\-a\*O.
.LE 
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
To remove job number \*L62169200.a\*O, created by user \*Lchinn\*O,
from the queue created by the \*Lat\*O command, enter:
.iS
atrm chinn.62169200.a
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
Note that \*L\&.a\*O specifies an \*Lat\*O job for \*Lsh\*O.  (\*L\&.f\*O
specifies an \*Lat\*O job for \*Lcsh\*O, and \*L\&.e\*O specifies an
\*Lat\*O job for \*Lksh\*O.)
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 13m
.LI "\*L/var/adm/cron\*O"
Main \*Lcron\*O directory.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/cron/at.allow\*O" 
List of allowed users.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/cron/at.deny\*O" 
List of denied users.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/cron/atjobs\*O" 
Spool area.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lat\*O(1), \*Latq\*O(1), \*Lcron\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
