.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: basename.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/25 20:25:56 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH basename 1
.SH NAME
\*Lbasename\*O, \*Ldirname\*O \- Returns the base filename or directory portion of a pathname
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lbasename\*O
\*Vstring\*O
\*O[\*Vsuffix\*O]
.PP
\*Ldirname\*O
\*Vstring\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "basename command"
.iX "base filename"
.iX "displaying" "base filename"
.iX "displaying" "directory pathname"
.iX "pathnames" "directory"
.iX "dirname command"
.iX "directories" "pathname"
.iX "files" "base filename"
.PP
The \*Lbasename\*O command reads the string specified on
the command line, deletes the portion from the beginning to the
last \*L/\*O (slash), and writes the base filename to standard output.
If \*Vsuffix\*O is specified on the command line and \*Vsuffix\*O appears
in \*Vstring\*O, the string is returned with the suffix removed.
.PP
The \*Ldirname\*O command reads the string specified
on the command line, deletes from the last \*L/\*O (slash) to the
end of the line, and writes the remaining pathname to standard output.
.PP
The \*Lbasename\*O and \*Ldirname\*O commands are generally
used inside command substitutions within a shell procedure to
.gL "command substitution"
specify an output filename that is some variation of a specified input
filename.  For more information, see the \*Lcsh\*O, \*Lksh\*O, and
\*Lsh\*O commands.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL 3m
.LI
To display the base filename of a shell variable, enter:
.iS
basename $WORKFILE
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This displays the base filename of the value assigned to the \*LWORKFILE\*O
shell variable.  If \*LWORKFILE\*O is set to
\*L/u/gabe/program.c\*O, then \*Lprogram.c\*O is displayed.
.LI
To construct, in a shell script, a filename that is the same as
another filename, except for its suffix, enter
the following command, using grave accents instead of apostrophes:
.iS
OFILE='basename $1 .c'.o
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This assigns to \*LOFILE\*O the value of the first positional
parameter (\*L$1\*O), but with its \*L.c\*O suffix changed to \*L.o\*O.
If \*L$1\*O is \*L/u/jim/program.c\*O, then
\*LOFILE\*O becomes \*Lprogram.o\*O.  Because
\*Lprogram.o\*O is only a base filename, it identifies a file in
the current directory.
.IP
The grave accents perform command substitution.
.LI
To construct the name of a file located in the same directory as
another, enter the following command, using grave accents instead of apostrophes:
.iS
AOUTFILE='dirname $TEXTFILE'/a.out
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This sets the \*LAOUTFILE\*O shell variable to the name of an
\*La.out\*O file that is in the same directory as
\*LTEXTFILE\*O.  If \*LTEXTFILE\*O is
\*L/u/fran/prog.c\*O, then the value of \*Ldirname $TEXTFILE\*O
is \*L/u/fran\*O and \*LAOUTFILE\*O becomes
\*L/u/fran/a.out\*O.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcsh\*O(1), \*Lksh\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
