.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: bdiff.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/16 12:45:01 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH bdiff 1
.SH NAME
\*Lbdiff\*O \- Finds differences in large files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lbdiff\*O
\*Vfile1\*O
\*Vfile2\*O
\*O[\*Vnumber\*O]
\*O[\*L-s\*O]
.PP
\*Lbdiff\*O
\*L-\*O
\*Vfile2\*O
\*O[\*Vnumber\*O]
\*O[\*L-s\*O]
.PP
\*Lbdiff\*O
\*Vfile1\*O
\*L-\*O
\*O[\*Vnumber\*O]
\*O[\*L-s\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lbdiff\*O command compares \*Vfile1\*O and
\*Vfile2\*O and writes information about their differing lines to
standard output.  If either filename is \*L-\*O (dash),
\*Lbdiff\*O reads standard input.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Suppresses error messages.  (May either precede or follow the \*Vnumber\*O
argument if it is specified.)
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "bdiff command"
.iX "comparing" "large files"
.iX "files" "comparing"
.PP
The \*Lbdiff\*O command uses \*Ldiff\*O to find lines that must be changed
in two files to make them identical (see the \*Ldiff\*O command).  Its primary
purpose is to permit processing of files that are too large for \*Ldiff\*O.
.PP
The \*Lbdiff\*O command ignores lines common to the beginning of both files,
splits the remainders into sections of \*Vnumber\*O lines, and runs
\*Ldiff\*O on the sections.  The output is then processed to make it look as
if \*Ldiff\*O had processed the files whole.
.PP
If you do not specify \*Vnumber\*O, a system default is used.  In
some cases, the \*Vnumber\*O you specify or the default \*Vnumber\*O may
be too large for \*Ldiff\*O.  If \*Lbdiff\*O fails, specify a smaller value
for \*Vnumber\*O and try again.
.PP
Note that because of file segmenting, \*Lbdiff\*O does not necessarily
find the smallest possible set of file differences.  In general, although the
output is similar, using \*Lbdiff\*O is not the equivalent of using
\*Ldiff\*O.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Ldiff\*O command
is executed by a child process, generated by forking, and
communicates with \*Lbdiff\*O through pipes.
.PP
It should not normally be necessary to use this command,
since \*Ldiff\*O can handle most large files.
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
An exit value of 0 (zero) indicates no differences, 1 indicates
differences found, and a number greater than 1 indicates an error.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Ldiff\*O(1), \*Ldiff3\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
