.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: bfs.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/05 18:43:53 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH bfs 1
.SH NAME
\*Lbfs\*O \- Scans files
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lbfs\*O
\*O[\*L-]
\*Vfile\*O
\&...
.sE 
.PP
The \*Lbfs\*O command is a read-only line editor typically used to scan files.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-\*O"
Suppresses the display of file sizes.  Normally,
\*Lbfs\*O displays the size in bytes of the file being scanned.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "bfs command"
.iX "scanning files"
.iX "files" "scanning"
.iX "editors" "bfs"
.PP 
The \*Lbfs\*O command is similar to the \*Led\*O command, but has some
additional subcommands and the ability to process much larger files.
.PP 
Input files can be up to 32K lines long, with up to 255 characters per line.
\*Lbfs\*O is usually more efficient than \*Led\*O for scanning a file because
the file is not copied to a buffer.  It is useful for identifying
appropriate lines at which to use the \*Lcsplit\*O command when dividing
a large file into more manageable pieces for editing.
.PP 
If you enter the \*LP\*O subcommand, \*Lbfs\*O prompts you
with \*C*\*O (asterisk).  You can turn off prompting by entering
a \*LP\*O again.  \*Lbfs\*O displays error messages only when
prompting is turned on.
.SS Pattern Searches
.PP 
The \*Lbfs\*O command supports all the address expressions described for
\*Led\*O.  (Regular expressions are covered in detail under \*Lgrep\*O.)
In addition, you can instruct \*Lbfs\*O to
search forward or backward through the file with or
without wraparound.  If you specify a forward search with wraparound,
\*Lbfs\*O continues searching from the beginning of the file after
it reaches the end of the file.  If you specify a backward search with
wraparound, it continues searching backward from the end of the file
after it reaches the beginning.  A search without wraparound stops at the
beginning or end of the file.
.PP 
Specify the four types of searches as follows:
.rS
.VL 
.LI "\*L/\*Vpattern\*O/"
Searches forward with wraparound for \*Vpattern\*O.
.LI "\*L?\*Vpattern\*O?" 
Searches backward with wraparound for \*Vpattern\*O.
.LI "\*L>\*Vpattern\*O>" 
Searches forward without wraparound for \*Vpattern\*O.
.LI "\*L<\*Vpattern\*O<" 
Searches backward without wraparound for \*Vpattern\*O.
.LE 
.rE 
.PP 
The pattern matching routine of \*Lbfs\*O differs somewhat from
the one used by \*Led\*O and includes additional features (see the
\*Lregcmp\*O subroutine).
.PP 
Only lowercase letters
\*La\*O through \*Lz\*O can be used, and all 26 marks are
remembered.  (See \*Led\*O for information on mark names.)
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.PP 
The \*Le\*O, \*Lg\*O, \*Lv\*O, \*Lk\*O,
\*Ln\*O, \*Lp\*O, \*Lq\*O, \*Lw\*O, \*L=\*O ,
\*L!\*O, and null subcommands operate the same as for \*Led\*O.
.PP 
Subcommands such as \*L-\^-\*O, \*L\(pl\(pl\(pl-\*O,
\*L\(pl\(pl\(pl=\*O, \*L-12\*O, and \*L\(pl4p\*O are accepted.  Note that
\*L1,10p\*O and \*L1,10\*O both display the first 10 lines.
.PP 
The \*Lf\*O subcommand displays only the name of the file being
scanned; there are no remembered filenames.  The \*Lw\*O
subcommand is independent of output diversion, truncation, or
compression (see the \*Lxo\*O, \*Lxt\*O, and \*Lxc\*O
subcommands that follow).
.PP 
The following additional subcommands are available:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lxf \*Vfile\*O"
Reads \*Lbfs\*O subcommands from \*Vfile\*O.  When
\*Lbfs\*O reaches the end of \*Vfile\*O or receives an
\*LINT\*O signal or if an error occurs, \*Lbfs\*O resumes
scanning the file that contains the \*Lxf\*O subcommand.
The \*Lxf\*O subcommands can be nested to a depth of 10.
.LI "\*Lxo [\*Vfile\*O]" 
Sends further output from the \*Lp\*O and null subcommands to
the named \*Vfile\*O, which is created with read and write
permission granted to all users.  If you do not specify a
\*Vfile\*O, \*Lbfs\*O writes to standard output.
Note that each redirection to a file creates the specified file,
deleting an existing file if necessary.
.LI "\*L:\*Vlabel\*O" 
Positions a \*Vlabel\*O in a subcommand file.  The
\*Vlabel\*O is ended with a newline character.  Spaces between the
\*L:\*O (colon) and the start of the \*Vlabel\*O are
ignored.  This subcommand can be used to insert comments into a
subcommand file, since labels need not be referenced.
.LI "\*L[\*Vaddress1\*O[,\*Vaddress2\*O]\*Lxb/\\*Vpattern\*L/\*Vlabel\*O" 
Sets the current line to the line containing \*Vpattern\*O and
jumps to \*Vlabel\*O in the current command file if
\*Vpattern\*O is matched within the designated range of lines.
The jump fails under any of the following conditions:
.ML 
.LI 
Either \*Vaddress1\*O or \*Vaddress2\*O is not between the first
and last lines of the file.
.LI 
\*Vaddress2\*O is less than \*Vaddress1\*O.
.LI 
The pattern does not match at least one line in the
specified range, including the first and last lines.
.LE
.PP 
This subcommand is the only one that does not issue an error message
on bad addresses, so it can be used before other subcommands are run
to test whether addresses are bad.  Note that the following subcommand
is an \*Vunconditional jump\*O:
.iS
xb/^/label
\*O\c
.iE
.PP 
The \*Lxb\*O subcommand is allowed only if it is read from
a file or a pipe.  If it is read from a pipe, only a
\*Vdownward jump\*O is possible.
.LI "\*Lxt \*Vnumber\*O"
Truncates output from the \*Lp\*O and null subcommands to
\*Vnumber\*O characters.  The default \*Vnumber\*O is 255.
.LI "\*Lxv[\*Vnumber\*O]  [\*Vvalue\*O]" 
Assigns the specified \*Vvalue\*O to the variable
named \*Vnumber\*O (0 to 9).  You can put one or more spaces
between \*Vnumber\*O and \*Vvalue\*O.  For example:
.iS
xv5  100
xv6  1,100p
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
assigns the value \*L100\*O to the variable \*L5\*O and
the value \*L1,100p\*O to the variable \*L6\*O.
.PP
To reference a variable, put a \*L%\*O (percent sign) in front of
the variable name.  Given the preceding assignments for
variables \*L5\*O and \*L6\*O, the following three subcommands
each display the first 100 lines of a file:
.iS
1,%5p
1,%5
%6
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
To escape the special
meaning of \*L%\*O, precede it with a \e (backslash).
.iS
g/".*\e%[cds]/p
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
matches and lists lines containing \*Lprintf\*O variables
(\*L%c\*O, \*L%d\*O, or \*L%s\*O).
.PP
You can also use the \*Lxv\*O subcommand to assign the first
line of command output as the \*Vvalue\*O of a variable.  To do
this, make the first character of \*Vvalue\*O an \*L!\*O
(exclamation point), followed by the command name.  For example,
the following command line stores the first line of the
file \*Ljunk\*O in the variable \*L5\*O:
.iS
xv5 !cat junk
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
To escape the special meaning of \*L!\*O as the first character
of \*Vvalue\*O, precede it with a \e (backslash).  For example,
the following command line
stores the value \*L!date\*O in the variable \*L7\*O:
.iS
xv7 \e!date
\*O\c
.iE
.LI "\*Lxbz  \*Vlabel\*O" 
Tests the last saved exit value from a shell command and jumps to
\*Vlabel\*O in the current command file if the value is 0 (zero).
.LI "\*Lxbn  \*Vlabel\*O" 
Tests the last saved exit value from a shell command and jumps to
\*Vlabel\*O in the current command file if the value is not 0 (zero).
.LI "\*Lxc  [\*Vswitch\*O]" 
Turns compressed output mode on or off.  (Compressed output mode
suppresses empty lines and replaces multiple spaces and tabs with a
single space.)
.PP
If \*Vswitch\*O is \*L1\*O, output from the \*Lp\*O
and null subcommands is compressed; if \*Vswitch\*O is \*L0\*O
it is not.  If you do not specify \*Vswitch\*O, the current value
of \*Vswitch\*O reverses.  Initially, \*Vswitch\*O is set to \*L0\*O.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lcsplit\*O(1), \*Led\*O(1)/\*Lred\*O(1),
\*Lgrep\*O(1)/\*Legrep\*O(1)/\*Lfgrep\*O(1).
.PP 
Functions:  \*Lregexp\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
