.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: biff.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/05 18:44:05 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH biff 1
.SH NAME
\*Lbiff\*O \- Notifies users when mail arrives
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lbiff\*O
\*O[\*Ly\*O | 
\*Ln\*O]
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "biff command"
.iX "mail" "notification"
.iX "users" "notifying about mail"
.PP 
The \*Lbiff\*O command
informs the system whether you want to be notified when mail arrives
during the current terminal session.
The following command enables notification:
.iS
biff y
\*O\c
.iE
.PP 
The following command disables notification:
.iS
biff n
\*O\c
.iE
.PP 
When mail notification is enabled, the \*LFrom:\*O, \*LTo:\*O,
\*LDate:\*O, and
\*LSubject:\*O header lines and the first seven lines or 560
characters of the message are displayed.  The \*Lbiff y\*O
command is often included in the \*L$HOME/\&.login\*O or
\*L$HOME/\&.profile\*O file to be executed each time you log in.
.PP 
The \*Lbiff\*O command operates asynchronously.
For synchronous notification, use the \*LMAIL\*O variable of \*Lsh\*O
or \*Lksh\*O, or the \*Lmail\*O variable of \*Lcsh\*O.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
.AL 3m 
.LI
To display the current setting, enter:
.iS
biff
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To be notified during the current terminal session whenever
mail arrives, enter the following in your
\*L$HOME/\&.login\*O or \*L$HOME/\&.profile\*O file:
.iS
biff y
\*O\c
.iE
.LE 
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L$HOME/\&.login\*O"
Read by login shell (after \*L.cshrc\*O) at login.
.LI "\*L$HOME/\&.profile\*O" 
User profile.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lcomsat\*O(8), \*Lcsh\*O(1), \*Lksh\*O(1),
\*Lmail\*O(1)/\*Lbinmail\*O(1), \*Lmailx\*O(1)/\*LMail\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
