.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: btou.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/12/02 16:16:52 $
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright (c) 1990, MIPS Computer Systems, Inc. |
.\" | All Rights Reserved.                            |
.\" ---------------------------------------------------
.\" $Header: /usr/doc/osf1doc/refpages/rcs/src/./BASE/DEC/man1/btou.1,v 3.2.2.4 1992/12/02 16:16:52 Ann_Boland Exp $
.TH btou 1
.SH NAME
\*Lbtou\*O \- Binary Ucode to ASCII Ucode converter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Lbtou\*O
\*Vbinary_file \*O
[
\*Vtext_file \*O
]
[
\*L\-n\*O
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "btou code converter"
The binary
\*Vucode\*O
to ASCII
\*Vucode\*O
converter,
\*Lbtou\*O,
reads the binary \*Lucode\*O file and writes it out in ASCII form
in the file specified in the command line.  It checks the version stamp
of the \*Lucode\*O file, and if it does not correspond to its own stamp,
a warning message will be printed.  By convention, ASCII ucode files have
the extension \*L\.U\*O and binary \*Lucode\(O files have the
extension \*L\.B\*O, but
\*Lbtou\*O
does not force this convention on the user.  If the text file name is not
given, the ASCII ucode is written to the standard output.
The \*Lbtou\*O converter
indents the \*Lucode\*O instructions to reflect their nesting levels within
expressions, for easier readability.
.PP
The \*Lbtou\*O converter
also reads the source file that generates the binary \*Lucode\*O and prints the
source line next to each LOC instruction as a COMM ucode. If the source
file is not found, this operation is not performed.  Because of these
additional COMM ucode instructions, the output \*Lucode\*O file actually
contains more \*Lucode\*O instructions than the input \*Lucode\*O file.
.PP
The following options are interpreted by
\*Lbtou\*O:
.VL 8m
.LI "\*L\-n\*O"
Turns off indentation when printing the \*Lucode\*O instructions.  Any error
detected in the ordering of the \*Lucode\*O instructions will not be detected.
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
If the input file is not a valid binary \*Lucode\*O file,
\*Lbtou\*O can behave erratically and produce useless output.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The \*Lbtou\*O
detects any error in the ordering of the \*Lucode\*O instructions.
Such errors are detected while it recognizes the nesting levels of
expressions, and it outputs the error messages.  When such error
occurs, the \*Lucode\*O instructions printed may not correspond to the original
order in the input file.  In such a situation, the \*Lucode\*O instructions can
be printed in their original order by using the
\*L\-n\*O flag.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.\" \*Lucode\*O(1),
\*Lutob\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
