.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: burst.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:24:49 $
.\"
.TH burst 1
.SH NAME
burst \- explode digests into messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B burst
[
\*V+folder\*O
] [
\*Vmsgs\*O
] [
\*Voptions\*O
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "burst command"
.iX "expanding packed messages"
The \*Lburst\*O command extracts the original messages from a forwarded message,
discards the forwarder's header details,
and places the original messages at the end of the current folder.
.PP
By default, \*Lburst\*O takes the current message in the current folder.
You can specify messages other than the current message by using \*Lburst\*O
with the
\*V+folder\*O
and
\*Vmsgs\*O
arguments.
If you specify another message, that message becomes the current message.
If you specify another folder, that folder becomes the current folder.
.PP
The \*Lburst\*O command will expand either a single message which contains
a number of separate messages packed together for ease of mailing,
or an Internet digest.
The \*Lpackf\*O and \*Lforw\*O commands can both
pack individual messages into a single message or file.
.PP
You can use \*Lburst\*O in combination with \*Lforw\*O
or \*Lpackf\*O to re-direct or forward mail more conveniently.
For example, if you wanted to forward a number of messages
to yourself on another account, you could use \*Lforw\*O to
combine them and send them in a single message.
When the message arrives, you can use \*Lburst\*O to expand
the single message into its constituent messages.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP "\-inplace" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noinplace" 10
.PD
Expands the forwarded message or digest in its current
place in the folder.
The message that is expanded is replaced
by the header used to forward the message,
or if it is a digest, by the table of contents.
The \*Lburst\*O command then places the extracted messages
immediately after this,
and re-numbers the rest of the messages in the folder
to make room for them.
The original message or digest is not saved.
.IP
If
.B \-noinplace
is given, the original message or digest is preserved.
The messages which \*Lburst\*O extracts are placed at the end of the folder.
Other messages are not re-numbered.
This is the default behavior.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-quiet" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noquiet" 10
.PD
Directs \*Lburst\*O to be silent about reporting messages
that are not in digest format.
Normally, an error message is printed if you attempt to use \*Lburst\*O on
a message which does not contain encapsulated messages.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-verbose" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noverbose" 10
.PD
Reports the general actions that \*Lburst\*O is taking to explode the digest.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The default settings for this command are:
.IP
\*V+folder\*O
defaults to the current folder
.br
\*Vmsgs\*O
defaults to the current message
.br
.B \-noinplace
.br
.B \-noquiet
.br
.B \-noverbose
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The \*Lburst\*O program enforces a limit on the number of messages
which may be expanded from a single message.
This number is about 1000 messages.
However, there is usually no limit on the number of messages
which may reside in the folder after the messages have been expanded.
.PP
The \*Lburst\*O command only works on messages that have been encapsulated
according to the guidelines laid down by the proposed standard RFC 934.
The encapsulated message is considered to start after \*Lburst\*O
encounters a line of dashes.
If you attempt to use \*Lburst\*O on a message that has not been
encapsulated according to RFC 934,
the results may be unpredictable.
For example, \*Lburst\*O may find an encapsulation boundary prematurely,
and split a single encapsulated message
into two or more messages.
.PP
Any text which appears after the last encapsulated message
is not placed in a separate message by \*Lburst\*O.
When the
.B \-inplace
option is used,
this trailing information is lost.
Text which appears before the first encapsulated message
is not lost.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine your Mail directory
Msg-Protect:+To set file protection when creating a new message
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L$HOME/\&.mh_profile\*O
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lforw\*O(1), \*Linc\*O(1), \*Lmsh\*O(1), \*Lpackf\*O(1)
.br
\f2Proposed Standard for Message Encapsulation\f1 (RFC 934)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
