.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cal.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/03 16:49:14 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH cal 1
.SH NAME
\*Lcal\*O \- Displays a calendar
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lcal\*O
\*O[ [\*Vmonth\*O] \*Vyear\*O ]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "cal command"
.iX "displaying" "calendar"
.iX "calendar" "displaying"
.PP
The \*Lcal\*O command writes to standard output a calendar for the
specified year or month.
.PP
The \*Vmonth\*O argument names the month for which you want the
calendar.  It can be a number between 1 and 12 for January through
December, respectively.  If \*Vmonth\*O is not specified, \*Lcal\*O
uses the current month.
.PP
The \*Vyear\*O argument names the year for which you want the
calendar.  Because \*Lcal\*O can display a calendar for any year from
1 to 9999, enter the full \*Vyear\*O rather than just the last two
digits.  If \*Vyear\*O is not specified, \*Lcal\*O uses the current
year.
.PP
The \*Lcal\*O command checks the \*LLC_TIME\*O environment variable and
.gL "environment variable"
uses the correct headers for the current locale.
.gL "locale"
If \*LLC_TIME\*O is not set, \*Lcal\*O
checks the value of \*LLANG\*O.  If neither variable is set, you receive
English headers.  Appropriate files are in \*L/usr/lib/nls/loc\*O and
\*L/etc/nls/loc\*O, and have a \*L\&.en\*O suffix.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.VL 1m
.LI
To display a calendar for February 1990, enter:
.iS
cal 2 1990
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To display a calendar for the year 84 A.D., enter:
.iS
cal 84
\*O\c
.iE
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 18m
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/nls/loc/\*Vlocale\*O"
Configuration files.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.\" "Using Internationalization Features" in the 
\*ECommand and Shell User's Guide\*O.
.PP
Files: \*Llocale\*O (4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
