.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: calendar.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/15 20:31:41 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH calendar 1
.SH NAME
\*Lcalendar\*O \- Writes reminder messages to standard output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lcalendar\*O
\*O[\*L-\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lcalendar\*O command reads a file named \*Lcalendar\*O in your
current (usually home) directory and writes to standard output any line
in the file that contains the current date or the next day's date.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-\*O"
Calls \*Lcalendar\*O for all users who have a \*Lcalendar\*O file
in their home directories and sends reminders by \*Lmail\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "writing" "reminder messages"
.iX "reminder service"
.iX "calendar command"
.iX "messages" "reminder"
.iX "files" "calendar"
.PP
The \*Lcalendar\*O command
recognizes date formats such as \*LDec. 7\*O or \*L12/7\*O.
It also recognizes the special character \*L*\*O (asterisk) to match any
month.  For example, it interprets \*L*/7\*O or \*L* 7\*O
as the seventh day of every month.
.PP
The \*LLC_TIME\*O variable, if it is defined, controls the spelling of month
names, the day/month or month/day order, and the month/day separator
character(s).
.PP
On Fridays, \*Lcalendar\*O writes all lines containing the dates
for Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and Monday.  It does not recognize
holidays, so if the next day is a holiday \*Lcalendar\*O prints lines for that
day, rather than for the next working day.
.PP
For you to get reminder service when other users run
\*Lcalendar -\*O, your \*Lcalendar\*O file
must be readable by others (see the \*Lchmod\*O command).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To display information in the \*Lcalendar\*O file
that pertains to today and tomorrow, enter:
.iS
calendar
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
A typical \*Lcalendar\*O file might look like this:
.iS
*/25 - Prepare monthly report
Aug. 12 - Fly to Denver
aug 23 - board meeting
Martha out of town - 8/23, 8/24, 8/25
8/24 - Mail car payment
sat aug/25 - beach trip
August 27 - Meet with Simmons
August 28 - Meet with Wilson
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
If today is Friday, August 24, then
the \*Lcalendar\*O command displays:
.iS
*/25 - Prepare monthly report
Martha out of town - 8/23, 8/24, 8/25
8/24 - Mail car payment
sat aug/25 - beach trip
August 27 - Meet with Simmons
\*O\c
.iE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L$HOME/calendar\*O"
Contains user calendar entries.
.LI "\*L/usr/lbin/calprog\*O"
Determines dates.
.iX "calprog program"
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O"
Contains user information.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lchmod\*O(1), \*Lmail\*O(1)/\*Lbinmail\*O(1),
\*Lmail\*O(1)/\*LMail\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
