.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cat.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/19 15:12:18 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH cat 1
.SH NAME
\*Lcat\*O \- Concatenates or displays files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lcat\*O
\*O[\*L-benrstuv\*O]
\*Vfile\*O
\&...
|
\*L-\*O
.sE
.PP
The \*Lcat\*O command reads each specified file in sequence and
writes it to standard output.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-b\*O"
Omits line numbers from blank lines when \*L-n\*O is specified. If you
specify the \*L-b\*O flag, the \*L-n\*O flag is automatically invoked
with it.
.LI "\*L-e\*O"
Same as the \*L-v\*O flag with
a \*L$\*O (dollar sign) character displayed at the end of each line.
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Displays output lines preceded by line numbers, numbered sequentially
from 1.
.LI "\*L-r\*O"
Replaces multiple consecutive empty lines with one empty line, so that
there is never more than one empty line between lines containing characters.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Does not display a message if \*Lcat\*O cannot
find an input file. (Silent option.)
.LI "\*L-t\*O"
Same as the \*L-v\*O flag, with the tab character printed as \*L<Ctrl-i>\*O
(\*L^I\*O).
.LI "\*L-u\*O"
Does not buffer output. Writes bytes from the input file to standard
output without delay as each is read.
.LI "\*L-v\*O"
Displays nonprinting characters so that they are visible.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "cat command"
.iX "displaying" "files"
.iX "concatenating files"
.iX "files" "concatenating"
.iX "files" "displaying"
.PP
The \*Lcat\*O command is frequently used with \*L>\*O (redirection symbol) to
concatenate the specified files and write them to the
specified destination.  (See \*LCAUTIONS\*O.) The \*Lcat\*O command is also used with
\*L>>\*O to append a file to another file.
.PP
If you do not specify a file or if you specify \*L-\*O (dash)
instead of \*Vfile\*O, \*Lcat\*O
reads from standard input. The \*Lcat\*O command accepts multiple
occurrences of - (dash) as a file argument.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To display the file \*Lnotes\*O, enter:
.iS
cat notes
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
If the file is longer than one screenful, it scrolls by too quickly to read.
To display a file one page at a time, use the \*Lmore\*O command.
.LI
To concatenate several files, enter:
.iS
cat  section1.1  section1.2  section1.3  > section1
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This creates a file named \*Lsection1\*O that is a copy
of \*Lsection1.1\*O followed by \*Lsection1.2\*O
and \*Lsection1.3\*O.
.LI
To suppress error messages about files that do not exist, enter:
.iS
cat -s section2.1 section2.2 section2.3 > section2
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
If \*Lsection2.1\*O does not exist, this command
concatenates \*Lsection2.2\*O and \*Lsection2.3\*O.
Note that the message goes to standard error, so it does not appear
in the output file.  The result is the same if you do
not use the \*L-s\*O flag,
except that \*Lcat\*O displays the error message:
.oS
cat: cannot open section2.1
\*O\c
.oE
.IP
You may want to suppress this message with the \*L-s\*O flag
when you use the \*Lcat\*O command in shell procedures.
.LI
To append one file to the end of another, enter:
.iS
cat section1.4 >> section1
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The \*L>>\*O in this command specifies that a copy of \*Lsection1.4\*O
be added to the end of \*Lsection1\*O.
If you want to replace the file, use a single \*L>\*O symbol.
.LI
To add text to the end of a file, enter:
.iS
cat >> notes
Get milk on the way home
<Ctrl-d>
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
\*LGet milk on the way home\*O is added to the end
of \*Lnotes\*O.  With this syntax, the \*Lcat\*O command does
not display a prompt; it waits for you to enter text.  Press the
End-of-File key sequence (\*L<Ctrl-d>\*O above)
to indicate you are finished.
.LI
To concatenate several files with text entered from the keyboard, enter:
.iS
cat section3.1 - section3.3 > section3
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This concatenates \*Lsection3.1\*O, text from the keyboard,
and \*Lsection3.3\*O to create the file \*Lsection3\*O.
.LI
To concatenate several files with output from another command, enter:
.iS
ls  |  cat section4.1 - > section4
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This copies \*Lsection4.1\*O, and then the output of
the \*Lls\*O command to the file \*Lsection4\*O.
.LI
To get two pieces of input from the terminal (when standard input is a
terminal) with a single command invocation, enter:
.iS
cat start - middle - end > file1
.iE
.IP
If standard input is a regular file, however, the preceding command is
equivalent to the following:
.iS
cat start - middle /dev/null end > file1
.iE
.IP
This is because the entire contents of the file would be consumed by
\*Lcat\*O the first time it saw - (dash) as a file argument. An
End-of-File condition would then be detected immediately when - (dash)
appeared the second time.
.LE
.SH CAUTIONS
.PP
Do not redirect output to one of the input files using the \*L>\*O
(redirection symbol).  If you do this, you lose the original data in
the input file because the shell truncates it before \*Lcat\*O can read it.
(See also the \*Lsh\*O command.)
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lmore\*O(1), \*Lpack\*O(1)/\*Lpcat\*O(1)/\*Lunpack\*O(1),
\*Lpg\*O(1), \*Lpr\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
