.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cb.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/11/17 17:25:40 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH cb 1
.SH NAME
\*Lcb\*O \- Converts C source code into a readable form
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lcb\*O
\*O[\*L-js\*O]
\*O[\*L-l\*Vlength\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O
\&...]
.sE 
.PP
The \*Lcb\*O command reads C programs from standard input or
from specified files and writes them to standard output in a form
that shows, through indentations and spacing, the structure of the code.
.SH "FLAGS"
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-j\*O"
Joins split lines.
.LI "\*L-l\*Vlength\*O" 
Splits lines that are longer than \*Vlength\*O bytes.
.LI "\*L-s\*O" 
Formats the source code according to the style of
Kernighan and Ritchie in \*VThe C Programming Language\*O
(Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1978; Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey.)
.LE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
When called without flags, the \*Lcb\*O command does not
split or join lines.  Note that punctuation in preprocessor statements
can cause indentation errors.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP 
To create a version of \*Lpgm.c\*O called \*Lpgm.pretty.c\*O
that is easy to read, with no lines longer than 60 bytes, enter:
.iS
cb  -l60 pgm.c  > pgm.pretty.c
\*O\c
.iE
.\" .SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.\" .PP 
.\" The \*Las\*O, \*Lgcc\*O (\*Lcc\*O), \*Lgdb\*O, and \*Lld\*O
.\" commands may be available on your system, but are not provided with OSF/1.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:
\*Lindent(1)\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
