.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cd.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/05 18:45:29 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH cd 1
.SH NAME
\*Lcd\*O \- Changes the current working directory
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lcd\*O
\*O[\*Vdirectory\*O]
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "cd command"
.iX "changing" "current working directory"
.iX "directories" "changing"
.iX "moving" "to another directory"
.PP 
The \*Lcd\*O command moves you from your present directory to
another directory.
You must have execute (search) permission in the specified
directory.
.PP 
If you do not specify a directory, \*Lcd\*O moves you
to your login directory (\*L$HOME\*O in \*Lksh\*O and \*Lsh\*O environments,
or \*L$home\*O in \*Lcsh\*O environment).  If the specified
directory name is a full pathname, it becomes the current
working directory.  A full pathname begins with a /
(slash) for the root directory, with a \&.
(dot) for the current working directory, or with a \&.\&.
(dot dot) for the parent directory.  If the directory name is not a full
pathname, \*Lcd\*O searches for it relative to one of the paths
specified by the \*L$CDPATH\*O shell variable (or
\*L$cdpath\*O \*Lcsh\*O variable).  This variable has
the same syntax as, and similar semantics to, the \*L$PATH\*O shell
variable (or \*L$path\*O \*Lcsh\*O variable).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
.AL 3m 
.LI
To change to your home directory, enter:
.iS
cd
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To change to a new directory, enter:
.iS
cd  /usr/include
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This changes the current working directory to \*L/usr/include\*O.
Now file pathnames that do not begin with / or ../
specify files located in \*L/usr/include\*O.
.LI
To go down one level of the directory tree, enter:
.iS
cd  sys
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
If the current working directory is \*L/usr/include\*O and if it
contains a subdirectory named \*Lsys\*O,
then \*L/usr/include/sys\*O becomes the current working directory.
.LI
To go up one level of the directory tree, enter:
.iS
cd  ..
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The special filename \&.\&. (dot dot) always refers to
the directory immediately above the current working directory.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lcsh\*O(1), \*Lksh\*O(1), \*Lpwd\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1).
.PP 
Functions:  \*Lchdir\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
