.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cdc.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/05 18:45:41 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH cdc 1
.SH NAME
\*Lcdc\*O \- Changes the comments in a Source Code Control System (SCCS) delta
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lcdc\*O
\*L-r\*VSID\*O
\*O[\*L-m\*O][\*VMRlist\*O]
\*O[\*L-y\*O][\*Vcomment\*O]
\*Vfile\*O
\&.\&.\&.
.PP 
\*Lcdc\*O
\*L-r\*VSID\*O
\*L-m\*VMRlist\*O
\*L-y\*Vcomment\*O
\*L-\*O
.sE 
.PP
The \*Lcdc\*O command changes the Modification Requests
.gL "Modification Request"
.gL "delta"
.gL "Source Code Control System"
.gL "SCCS"
.gL "SID"
.gL "SCCS comment"
(MRs) and comments for the SID specified by the \*L-r\*O
flag for each named Source Code Control System (SCCS) file.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-m\*O[\*VMRlist\*O]"
Supplies a list of MR numbers for \*Lcdc\*O to add or delete in
the SID specified by the \*L-r\*O flag.  You can use this flag
only if the file has the \*Lv\*O
header flag set (see the \*Ladmin\*O command).  A null MR list has no effect.
.PP
In \*VMRlist\*O, MRs are separated by spaces, tab
characters, or both.  To delete an MR, precede the MR number with an
! (exclamation point).  If the MR you want to delete is currently in
the list of MRs, it is changed into a comment line.  \*Lcdc\*O
places a list of all deleted MRs in the comment section of the delta and
precedes them with a comment line, indicating that the following MRs were
deleted.
.PP
If you do not specify the \*L-m\*O flag, and the \*Lv\*O
header flag is set, MRs are read from standard input.  If standard input
is a terminal, \*Lcdc\*O prompts you for the MRs. The first
newline character not preceded by a \e (backslash) ends the list on the
command line.  \*Lcdc\*O continues to take input until it reads an
End-of-File character or a blank line.  MRs are always read
before comments (see the \*L-y\*O flag).  If the \*Lv\*O
flag has a value, \*Lcdc\*O interprets the
value as the name of a program that validates the MR numbers.  If the
MR number validation program returns a nonzero exit value,
\*Lcdc\*O stops and does not change the MRs.
.LI "\*L-r\*VSID\*O" 
Specifies the SCCS identification number
of the delta for which \*Lcdc\*O will change the comments or MRs.
.LI "\*L-y\*O[\*Vcomment\*O]" 
Specifies text to replace any comment already existing
for the delta specified by the \*L-r\*O flag.  \*Lcdc\*O keeps
the existing comments and precedes them by a comment line, stating that
they were changed.  A null \*Vcomment\*O has no effect.
.PP
If you do not specify \*L-y\*O, \*Lcdc\*O reads comments
from standard input until it reads an End-of-File character.  If the
standard input is a terminal, \*Lcdc\*O prompts for the
comments and also allows a blank line to end input.  If the last
character of a line is a \e (backslash), \*Lcdc\*O ignores it
and continues to read standard input.
.LE 
.PP 
If \*Lcdc\*O reads standard input for filenames (that is,
when you specify a filename of \*L-\*O (dash)), you must use the
\*L-y\*O and \*L-m\*O flags.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "cdc command"
.iX "SCCS" "changing delta comments"
.iX "deltas" "changing comments"
.iX "Modification Requests"
.iX "changing" "SCCS delta comments"
.iX "MR"
.iX "comments" "changing SCCS files"
.PP 
If you specify a directory name, \*Lcdc\*O
performs the requested actions on all SCCS files in that directory (that
is, all files with names that have the \*Ls.\*O prefix).  If you
specify a \*L-\*O (dash) in place of \*Vfile\*O,
\*Lcdc\*O reads standard input and interprets each line as the name
of an SCCS file.
For more information on SCCS, see the
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O.
.PP 
You can change the comments and MRs for an SID only if you made the
SID or you own the file and the directory.  For more information on the
permissions needed to change SCCS files, see the \*Lget\*O command.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
To change the comment for SID 1.3 of SCCS file \*Ls.test.c\*O to \*Lnew
comment\*O, enter:
.iS
cdc -r1.3 -y"new comment" s.test.c
\*O\c
.iE
.SH EXIT VALUES
For information about exit values, see the \*LFLAGS\*O section.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Ladmin\*O(1), \*Lcomb\*O(1), \*Ldelta\*O(1), \*Lget\*O(1),
\*Lprs\*O(1), \*Lrmdel\*O(1), \*Lsact\*O(1), \*Lsccsdiff\*O(1),
\*Lsccshelp\*O(1), \*Lunget\*O(1), \*Lval\*O(1), \*Lwhat\*O(1).
.PP 
Files:  \*Lsccsfile\*O(4).
.PP
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
