.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cdoc.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/09/01 08:43:14 $
.\" 
.TH cdoc 1
.SH Name
cdoc \- invokes CDA document conversion
.SH Syntax
.B cdoc
[ \-s \f2format\fP ] [ \-d \f2format\fP ] [ \-O \f2options_file\fP ]
[ \-m \f2message_log\fP ] [ \-o \f2outputfile\fP ] \f2inputfile\fP
.SH Description
.NXR "cdoc command"
The
.cs
cdoc
command converts the revisable format file, \f2inputfile\fP,
to another revisable format or to a final form file.  If
\f2inputfile\fP is not specified,
.cs
cdoc
reads from standard input.  Unless a destination file is
specified with the \-o option, the
.cs
cdoc
command writes files to \f2standard output\fP.
.SH Options
.TP 10
.B \-s \f2format\fP
Specifies the format of \f2inputfile\fP and invokes an appropriate input
converter as part of CDA. The DDIF, DTIF, DOTS (for Analysis output
only) and Text converter are provided in the DEC CDA Run-Time Services kit.
Additional converters can be added by other layered products.  
Contact your system manager for a complete list of the input formats 
supported on your system. The default format is \f2DDIF\fP.
.TP 10
.B \-d \f2format\fP
Specifies the format of \f2outputfile\fP and invokes an appropriate output
converter as part of CDA. The DDIF, DTIF, Text, Analysis, and PS converters are
provided in the DEC OSF/1 OSFCDABASE subset or the
DEC CDA Run-Time Services kit. Additional converters can be added by 
other layered products. Contact your system
manager for a complete list of the output formats supported on your system.
The default format is \f2DDIF\fP.
.TP 10
.B \-O \f2options_file\fP
Names the file passed to the input and output converters to control
specific processing options for each converter.
Refer to your documentation set for a description of converter options.
.IP "" 10
The options file has a default file type of .cda_options. Each line of the
options file specifies a format name that can optionally be 
followed by \f2_input\fP or \f2_output\fP to 
restrict the option to either an input or output 
converter. The second word is a valid option preceded by one or more spaces, 
tabs, or a slash (/) and can contain uppercase and lowercase letters, numbers, 
dollar signs, and underlines. The case of letters is not significant. If an 
option requires a value, then spaces, tabs, or an equal sign can separate the
option from the value. 
.IP "" 10
You can precede any line by spaces and tabs.
To terminate a line, use
any character other than those used to specify
the format names and options. The syntax and interpretation of
the text that follows the format name is specified by the supplier of the
front and back end converters for the specified format. 
.IP "" 10
To specify several options for the same input or output format, specify one
option on a line. If an invalid option for an input or output format or an
invalid value for an option is specified, the option may be ignored or an
error message may be returned. Each input or output format that supports
processing options specifies any restrictions or special formats required
when specifying options. 
.IP "" 10
By default, any messages that occur during processing of the options file 
are written to \f2standard error\fP.  For those
input and output formats that support a LOG option, messages can be 
directed to a log file or to a common message log.
.TP 10
.B \-m \f2message_log\fP
Enables enhanced messaging and logs all messages to \f2message_log\fP or,
if '-' is specified, to \f2standard error\fP in place of the \f2message_log\fP. 
If you do not specify this option, only serious errors are reported.
.IP "" 10
Once you create the common message log, CDA access routine users can 
manage their front and back end messages by continuing to direct those
messages to the common message log. When you create a common message
log, error messages may still be sent to individual front and back
end logs through the use of the options for those front and back ends.
The common message log serves as a convenient tool for integration
of messages from the various front and back ends.
.TP 10
.B \-o \f2outputfile\fP
Specifies the name of the output file.  If not specified,
.cs
cdoc
writes to standard output.
.SH See Also
ctod(1), ddifanls(1), ddifps(1), ddiftext(1), dtifanls(1), dtifddif(1),
dtoc(1), dxvdoc(1X), textddif(1), vdoc(1),
cda(4), cda_msg(4), ddif(4), ddis(4), dots(4), dtif(4), dvr_msg(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
