.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cdsuf.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/29 17:58:22 $
.\"
.\" Rock Ridge Group Rock Ridge Interchange Protocol
.TH cdsuf 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lcdsuf\*O \- read the System Use Fields from a System Use Area
.SH SYNOPSIS
.iX "cdsuf"
.iX "CD-ROM file system" "reading System Use fields"
.PP
.sS
\*Lcdsuf\*O [\*L-s \*Vnumber\*O] [\*L-b\*O] \*Vfile\*O
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
The following options are available:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-s \*Vnumber\*O"
Specifies the File Section for the System Use Area to be read. The
numbering starts with one. If this option is omitted the last File Section of
that file is assumed.
.LI "\*L-b\*O"
Copies all of the System Use Fields of the System Use Area from the CD-ROM to
standard output in binary format.
.LE
.PP
\*Vfile\*O is the name of any file or directory within the CD-ROM file
hierarchy.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This command is used to access the System Use Fields of the System Use Area
associated with a File Section of a file or directory on a Rock Ridge formatted
CD-ROM and to list its contents on standard output, following any Continuation
Fields that may be present.
.PP
The output is formatted in the form of a table that contains an entry for each
System Use Field in the System Use Area as recorded on the CD-ROM. Each table
entry has the fields Signature, Length, Version, and Data as specified in the
System Use Sharing Protocol. If the \*L-b\*O option is used, the contents of
the full System Use Area are written to standard output in binary format as it
is recorded on the CD-ROM.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The user must have read permission for \*Vfile\*O to execute the command
successfully.
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
The following exit values are returned:
.VL
.LI "0"
Successful completion
.LI "1"
File not found, file is not a file or directory within a CD-ROM file
hierarchy, or access denied
.LI "2"
File Section indicated by \*L-s\*O does not exist
.LI "3"
File Section indicated by \*L-s\*O has no System Use Area
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lcd_suf\*O(3)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
