.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cflow.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 18:44:43 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH cflow 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lcflow\*O \- Generates a C language flow graph of external references
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*Lcflow\*O
\*O[\*L-d\*Vnumber\*O]
\*O[\*L-i_\*O]
\*O[\*L-ip\*O]
\*O[\*L-ix\*O]
\*O[\*L-MA\*O]
\*O[\*L-Nd\*Vnumber\*O]
\*O[\*L-Nl\*Vnumber\*O]
\*O[\*L-Nn\*Vnumber\*O]
.nL
\*O[\*L-Nt\*Vnumber\*O]
\*O[\*L-r\*O]
\*Vfile\*O
\&.\&.\&.
.in -.5i
.sE
.PP
The \*Lcflow\*O command analyzes C, \*Lyacc\*O, \*Llex\*O,
assembler, and object files and writes a chart of their external references
to standard output.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-d\*Vnumber\*O"
Sets to a decimal integer the depth at
which the flow graph is cut off.  By default this is a large number.
Do not set the cutoff depth to a nonpositive integer.
.LI "\*L-i_\*O"
Includes names that begin with an underline character.
The default excludes these functions (and corresponding data if \*L-ix\*O
is used).
.LI "\*L-ip"
\*ODisables ANSI function prototypes. The default option
.gL "ANSI"
is to fill in undefined function information with available prototype
declarations.
.LI "\*L-ix"
\*OIncludes external and static data symbols. The default
includes only functions.
.LI "\*L-MA"
\*OSpecifies that the first pass of the modified \*Llint\*O
command is operated in ANSI mode. The default mode of operation is
extended mode.
.LI "\*L-Nd\*Vnumber"
\*OChanges the dimension table size to \*Vnumber\*O.
The default value of \*Vnumber\*O is 2000.
.LI "\*L-Nl\*Vnumber"
\*OChanges the number of type nodes to \*Vnumber\*O.
The default value of \*Vnumber \*Ois 8000.
.LI "\*L-Nn\*Vnumber"
\*OChanges the symbol table size to \*Vnumber\*O.
The default value of \*Vnumber \*Ois 1500.
.LI "\*L-Nt\*Vnumber"
\*OChanges the number of tree nodes to \*Vnumber\*O.
The default value of \*Vnumber \*Ois 1000.
.LI "\*L-r"
\*OProduces an inverted listing that shows the callers
of each function, sorted by called function.
.LE
.PP
\*OIn addition, the \*Llint\*O command recognizes the following
flags of the \*Lcpp\*O macro preprocessor:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-I \*Vdirectory"
\*OAdds \*Vdirectory\*O
to the list of directories in which\*L \*Othe \*Llint\*O
program searches for \*L#include\*O files.
.LI "\*L-D \*Vname\*O[=\*Vdefinition\*O]"
\*ODefines \*Vname\*O, as if by \*L#define\*O. The
default definition is \*L1\*O.
.LI "\*L-U \*Vname"
\*ORemoves any initial definition of \*Vname\*O, where \*Vname\*O
is a reserved symbol that is predefined by the particular preprocessor.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "cflow command"
The \*Lcflow\*O command sends files with suffixes \*L.y\*O
to \*Lyacc\*O, \*L.l\*O to \*Llex\*O,
and \*L.c\*O to the
\*Lcpp\*O macro preprocessor for processing. A modified first pass of the
\*Llint\*O command then processes the \*Lyacc\*O, \*Llex\*O,
and \*Lcpp\*O output, or any \*L.i\*O files.
The \*Lcflow\*O command assembles files with suffix\*L .s\*O,
extracting information from the symbol table (as it does with \*L.o\*O
files). From this output, the \*Lcflow\*O command produces a graph
of external references and writes it to standard output.
\*OEach line of output provides the following information (in order
from left to right):
.ML
.LI
A line number followed by sufficient tabs to indicate the level
of nesting
.LI
The name of the global, a colon, and its definition
.LE
.PP
The name is normally a function not defined as external and not
beginning with an underline character (see the \*L-i_\*O and \*L-i\*O
inclusion flags).  For information extracted from
C source files, the definition
consists of an abstract type declaration (for example, \*Lchar*\*O), the
name of the source file surrounded by angle brackets, and the line
number on which the definition was found.  Definitions extracted from
object files contain the filename and section under which
the symbol appeared, such as \*Ltext \*Oor \*Ldata\*O. The \*Lcflow
\*Ocommand deletes leading underline characters in C\(hystyle external
names.
.PP
\*OOnce the \*Lcflow\*O command displays a name, later references
to the name contain only the \*Lcflow\*O line number where the
definition can be found. For undefined references,\*L cflow \*Odisplays
only <> (angled brackets).
\*OIf the nesting level becomes too deep to display in available
space, pipe the output from the \*Lcflow\*O command to the
\*Lpr\*O command using the \*L-e\*O
flag to compress the tab expansion to less than eight spaces
per tab stop.
.PP
To ensure that the line numbers produced by \*Lcflow\*O
match your \*Llex\*O and \*Lyacc\*O files, you must send
the \*L.l\*O or \*L.y\*O file to the \*Lcflow \*Ocommand.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To generate a default flow graph of these C files
that comprise a program, enter:
.iS
cflow timeout.c kill.c error.c
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To produce a C flow graph with a single level of
nesting of functions, enter:
.iS
cflow -d1 resam.c pptp.c ptpt.c rrr.c whn.c
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To generate a \*Lcflow \*Ograph of a \*Llex\*O
program, enter:
.iS
cflow scan.l
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To generate a \*Lcflow \*Ograph of a \*Lyacc\*O
program, enter:
.iS
cflow yaccfile.y
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To generate an inverted listing that shows the callers
of each of the functions in the C files used in the previous examples, enter:
.iS
cflow -r resam.c pptp.c ptpt.c rrr.c whn.c
\*O\c
.iE
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Llex\*O(1), \*Llint\*O(1), \*Lnm\*O(1),
\*Lpr\*O(1), \*Lyacc\*O(1).
.\" .PP 
.\" The \*Las\*O, \*Lgcc\*O (\*Lcc\*O), \*Lgdb\*O, and \*Lld\*O
.\" commands may be available on your system, but are not provided with OSF/1.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
