.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: checknr.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/05 18:46:18 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH checknr 1
.SH NAME
\*Lchecknr\*O \- Checks \*Lnroff\*O files
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lchecknr\*O
\*O[\*L-fs\*O]
\*O[\*L-a.\*Vx1\*L.\*Vy1\*L.\*Vx2\*L.\*Vy2\*O
\&.\&.\&.
\*L.\*Vxn\*L.\*Vyn\*O]
\*O[\*L-c.\*Vx1\*L.\*Vx2\*L.\*Vx3\*O
\&.\&.\&.
\*L.\*Vxn\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O
\&.\&.\&.]
.sE 
.PP
The \*Lchecknr\*O command checks a list of \*Lnroff\*O
input files for certain kinds of errors involving mismatched 
opening and closing delimiters and unknown commands.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-a\&.\*Vx1\*O\&.\*Vy1\*O\&.\*Vx2\*O\&.\*Vy2\*O ... \*L\&.\*Vxn\*O\&.\*Vyn\*O"
Adds pairs of macros to the list.  This flag must be followed by
groups of six characters, each group defining a pair of macros.
The six characters are a period, the first macro name, another period,
and the second macro name.
For example, to define a pair \*L\&.BS\*O and \*L\&.ES\*O,
use \*L-a\&.BS\&.ES\*O.  (You cannot use the \*L-a\*O flag to define a
1-character macro name.)
.LI "\*L-c\&.\*Vx1\*O\&.\*Vx2\*O\&.\*Vx3\*O ... \*L\&.\*Vxn\*O" 
Defines otherwise undefined commands.
.LI "\*L-f\*O" 
Causes \*Lchecknr\*O to ignore \*L\ef\*O font changes.
.LI "\*L-s\*O" 
Causes \*Lchecknr\*O to ignore \*L\es\*O size changes.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "checknr command"
.iX "checking" "nroff files"
.iX "files" "nroff"
.iX "nroff" "files"
.PP 
If no files are specified, \*Lchecknr\*O
checks the standard input.  Delimiters checked are as follows:
.ML  
.LI 
Font changes using \*L\ef\*Vx\*O ... \*L\efP\*O.
.LI
Size changes using \*L\es\*Vx\*O ... \*L\es0\*O.
.LI
Macros that come in open/close forms (for example,
the \*L\&.TS\*O and \*L\&.TE\*O macros), which must always come in pairs.
.LE 
.PP 
The \*Lchecknr\*O command can handle both the \*Lms\*O and \*Lme\*O macro packages.
.PP 
The \*Lchecknr\*O command is intended to be used on documents that are
prepared with \*Lchecknr\*O in mind, much the same as \*Llint\*O.
It expects a certain document writing style for \*L\ef\*O and
\*L\es\*O commands,
in that each \*L\ef\*Vx\*O must be terminated with \*L\efP\*O and
each \*L\es\*Vx\*O must be terminated with \*L\es0\*O.
While it will work to go directly into the next font or explicitly
specify the original font or point size,
and many existing documents actually do this,
such a practice produces error messages from \*Lchecknr\*O.
.PP 
The \*Lchecknr\*O command does not recognize certain reasonable
constructs, such as conditionals.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
\*Lderoff\*O(1), \*Lneqn\*O(1), \*Lnroff\*O(1), \*Ltbl\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
