.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: chgrp.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/19 16:16:09 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.TH chgrp 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lchgrp\*O \- Changes the group ownership of a file or directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lchgrp\*O
\*O[\*L\-fR\*O]
\*Vgroup\*O
\*Vfile\*O
.sE
.PP
The \*Lchgrp\*O command changes the group associated with the
specified file or directory to \*Vgroup\*O.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "chgrp command"
.iX "changing" "group ownership"
.iX "files" "changing group ownership"
.iX "ownership" "group"
.iX "groups" "ownership"
.iX "group" "ID"
.iX "ID" "group"
If you do not own the file and do not belong to
the new group, you must have superuser authority to
change the group name or group ID.
.PP
The \*Vgroup\*O argument must be either a valid group name or
a valid group ID that exists in the group database.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-f\*O"
Suppresses all error reporting.
.LI "\*L\-R\*O"
Causes \*Lchgrp\*O to descend recursively through its
directory arguments, setting the specified group ID.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Commenting out the following sentence per QAR 8315.
.\" When symbolic links are encountered, their group is changed,
.\" but they are not traversed.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To change the group ownership of the file or directory
named \*Lproposals\*O to \*Lstaff\*O, enter:
.iS
chgrp  staff  proposals
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The group access permissions for \*Lproposals\*O
now apply to \*Lstaff\*O.  See \*Lchmod\*O for details.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/group\*O"
Contains group information.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lchmod\*O(1), \*Lchown\*O(1), \*Lgroups\*O(1).
.PP
Functions:  \*Lchmod\*O(2), \*Lchown\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
