.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: chown.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.6.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/15 01:31:18 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.TH chown 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lchown\*O \- Changes the owner of files or directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lchown\*O
\*O[\*L\-fR\*O]
\*Vowner\*O[\*L:\*Vgroup\*O]
\*Vfile\*O
\&.\&.\&.
.sE
.PP
The \*Lchown\*O command changes the owner of the specified
files or directories to the specified username or user ID.
.gL "owner"
.gL "user ID"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "chown command"
.iX "files" "changing owner ID"
.iX "directories" "changing owner ID"
.iX "changing" "file owner ID"
.iX "owner ID"
Only a user with superuser authority can use the \*Lchown\*O command.
.PP
The \*Vowner\*O argument must be a valid username or a valid numerical
user ID.  The optional \*Vgroup\*O argument must be a valid group
name or a valid numerical group ID.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-f\*O"
Turns off error reporting.
.LI "\*L\-R\*O"
Descends recursively through its directory arguments, setting
the specified owner.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Commenting out the following sentence per QAR 8314.
.\" When symbolic links are encountered, their
.\" ownership is changed, but they are not traversed.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To change the owner of the file \*Lprogram.c\*O, enter:
.iS
chown  steffan  program.c
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The user access permissions for \*Lprogram.c\*O now apply to
.gL "permissions"
\*Lsteffan\*O.  As the owner, \*Lsteffan\*O can use the \*Lchmod\*O command
to permit or deny the other users access to \*Lprogram.c\*O.
(See the \*Lchmod\*O command for details.)
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L0\*O"
Successful completion
.LI "\*L>0\*O"
Error occurred
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O"
Contains usernames and numeric user IDs.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lchgrp\*O(1), \*Lchmod\*O(1),
\*Lpasswd\*O(1)/\*Lchfn\*O(1)/\*Lchsh\*O(1).
.PP
Functions:  \*Lchown\*O(2), \*Lchmod\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
