.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cmp.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/18 11:52:20 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH cmp 1
.SH NAME
\*Lcmp\*O \- Compares two files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lcmp\*O
\*O[\*L-l\*O
|
\*L-s\*O]
\*Vfile1\*O
\*Vfile2\*O
.sE
.PP
The \*Lcmp\*O command compares two files.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-l\*O"
Prints the byte number (decimal) and the
differing bytes (octal) for each difference.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Does not print data for differing files; returns only an exit
value.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "cmp command"
.iX "files" "comparing"
.iX "comparing" "files"
.PP
If \*Vfile1\*O is \*L-\*O (dash), standard input is used.
By default, the \*Lcmp\*O command
prints no information if the files are the same.
If the files differ, \*Lcmp\*O prints the byte and line number
where the difference occurred.
The \*Lcmp\*O command also specifies whether one file
is an initial subsequence of the other
(that is, if the \*Lcmp\*O command reads an End-of-File character in one file
before finding any differences).  Normally, you use the
\*Lcmp\*O command to compare nontext files and the
\*Ldiff\*O command to compare text files.
.PP
Note that bytes and lines reported by \*Lcmp\*O are numbered from 1.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL 3m
.LI
To determine whether two files are identical, enter:
.iS
cmp prog.o.bak prog.o
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The preceding command compares the files
\*Lprog.o.bak\*O and \*Lprog.o\*O.  If the
files are identical, a message is not displayed.  If
the files differ, the location of the first difference
is displayed.  For instance:
.iS
prog.o.bak prog.o differ:  byte 5, line 1
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
If the message \*Ccmp: EOF on prog.o.bak\*O is displayed,
then the first part of \*Lprog.o\*O is identical to
\*Lprog.o.bak\*O, but there is additional data in \*Lprog.o\*O.
If the message \*Ccmp: EOF on prog.o\*O is displayed,
it is \*Lprog.o.bak\*O that is the same as \*Lprog.o\*O but also
contains addition data.
.LI
To display each pair of bytes that differ, enter:
.iS
cmp -l prog.o.bak prog.o
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This compares the files and then displays the byte number
(in decimal) and the differing bytes (in octal) for each
difference.  For example, if the fifth byte is octal 101 in
\*Lprog.o.bak\*O and 141 in \*Lprog.o\*O, then the \*Lcmp\*O command displays:
.oS
5 101 141
 \&.
 \&.
.\&.
\*O\c
.oE
.LE
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
Exit value 0 is returned for identical files, 1 for differing files, and >1 for an
inaccessible file or a missing argument.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcomm\*O(1), \*Lbdiff\*O(1), \*Ldiff\*O(1), \*Ldiff3\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
