.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: col.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/17 19:23:36 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH col 1
.SH NAME
\*Lcol\*O \- Filters text containing linefeeds
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lcol\*O
\*O[\*L-bfhpx\*O]
\*O[\*L-l\*O
\*Vnumber\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lcol\*O command reads from standard input and writes to
standard output.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-b\*O"
Assumes that the output device in use is not capable of backspacing.
In this case, if two or more characters are to be displayed in the same
position, only the last one that is read is displayed in the output.
.LI "\*L-f\*O"
Suppresses the default treatment of half-line motions in the input.
Normally, \*Lcol\*O does not emit half-line motions on output,
although it does accept them in its input.  With this flag, output may
contain forward half-linefeeds (\*L<Esc-9>\*O), but not reverse
linefeeds (\*L<Esc-7>\*O or \*L<Esc-8>\*O).
.LI "\*L-h\*O"
Compresses spaces into tabs. This is the default.
.LI "\*L-l number\*O"
Buffers at least \*Vnumber\*O lines in memory.  By default, 128 lines"
are buffered.
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Displays unknown escape sequences as characters, subject to
overprinting from reverse line motions.  Normally, \*Lcol\*O
ignores them.  You should be fully aware of the textual position of
escape sequences before you use this flag.
.LI "\*L-x\*O"
Outputs multiple spaces instead of tabs.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "col command"
.iX "reverse linefeeds"
.iX "half-linefeeds"
.iX "linefeeds"
.iX "linefeeds"
.iX "filtering" "text with linefeeds"
.PP
The \*Lcol\*O command performs the line overlays implied by reverse
linefeeds (ASCII \*L<Esc-7>\*O), and by forward and reverse half-linefeeds
.gL "ASCII"
(ASCII \*L<Esc-9>\*O and ASCII \*L<Esc-8>\*O).
It also replaces white-space characters with tabs where possible.
.PP
The \*Lcol\*O command is particularly useful
for filtering multicolumn output made by the \*Lnroff\*O
and \*Ltbl\*O commands.
.PP
The \*Lcol\*O command assumes that the ASCII control characters
\*LSO\*O (\e017) and \*LSI\*O (\e016) begin and end text in an alternate
character set.  \*Lcol\*O remembers the character set each input
character belongs to, and on output generates \*LSI\*O and \*LSO\*O
characters as appropriate to ensure that each character is printed in
the correct character set.
.PP
On input, \*Lcol\*O accepts only the control characters for the
\*L<Space>\*O, \*L<Backspace>\*O, \*L<Tab>\*O, and
\*L<Return>\*O keys;
the newline character; the \*LSI\*O, \*LSO\*O, and
\*LVT\*O control characters; and \*L<Esc-7>\*O, \*L<Esc-8>\*O,
or \*L<Esc-9>\*O.  The \*LVT\*O control character (\*L\e013\*O) is
an alternate form of full reverse linefeed included for compatibility
with some earlier programs of this type.  The \*Lcol\*O command discards all
other nonprinting characters.
.PP
If the input attempts to back up to the last flushed line, \*Lcol\*O
displays a warning message.
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
.AL
.LI "\*L0\*O"
Successful completion
.LI "\*L>0\*O"
Error occurred
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
 \*Lderoff\*O(1), \*Lneqn\*O(1), \*Lnroff\*O, \*Ltbl\*O.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
