.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: colcrt.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/05 18:47:43 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH colcrt 1
.SH NAME
\*Lcolcrt\*O \- Filters text processor output for screen previewing
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lcolcrt\*O
\*O[\*L-\*O
\*L-2\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O
\&...]
.sE 
.PP
The \*Lcolcrt\*O command filters output from text processors such as
\*Lnroff\*O so that it can be previewed
on a cathode ray tube (CRT).
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-\*O"
Suppresses underlining; this is useful for previewing boxed tables from
\*Ltbl\*O.
.LI "\*L-2\*O" 
Causes all half-lines to be printed, effectively doublespacing
the output.  This is useful when printing output with subscripts and
superscripts on a line printer, where half-lines do not normally appear.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "colcrt command"
.iX "filtering" "text processor output"
.iX "previewing text processor output"
.iX "text processor" "previewing output"
.PP 
The \*Lcolcrt\*O command
provides virtual half-linefeed and reverse linefeed sequences for
terminals without such capability, and on which overstriking is destructive.
\*Lcolcrt\*O changes underline characters to dashes
and places them and half-line characters on new lines in between the
normal output lines.
.iX "linefeeds" "reverse"
.iX "linefeeds" "half"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
The following command line illustrates a typical use of \*Lcolcrt\*O:
.iS
tbl exum2.n | nroff -ms | colcrt - | more
\*O\c
.iE
.SH NOTES
.PP 
.AL 3m 
.LI
\*Lcolcrt\*O cannot back up more than 102 lines.
.LI
General overstriking is lost; as a special case a \*L|\*O (vertical bar)
overstruck with a \*L-\*O (dash) or \*L_\*O (underline) becomes a
\*L+\*O (plus sign).
.LI
Lines are trimmed to 132 bytes.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
\*Lcol\*O(1), \*Lderoff\*O(1), \*Lmore\*O(1), \*Lneqn\*O(1), 
\*Lnroff\*O(1), \*Lpg\*O(1), \*Ltbl\*O(1), \*Lul\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
