.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: comb.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/05 18:48:07 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH comb 1
.SH NAME
\*Lcomb\*O \- Combines Source Code Control System (SCCS) deltas
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lcomb\*O
\*O[\*L-c\*Vlist\*O]
\*O[\*L-os\*O]
\*O[\*L-p\*VSID\*O]
\*Vfile\*O
\&...
.sE 
.PP
The \*Lcomb\*O command writes to standard output a shell procedure
for combining the specified deltas (SIDs) of an SCCS file and creating
.gL "delta"
.gL "SID"
.gL "SCCS"
.gL "Source Code Control System"
a new version of the file with fewer deltas.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
Each flag or group of flags applies independently to each named file.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-c\*Vlist\*O"
Specifies a list of deltas (SIDs) that the shell
procedure will preserve (see \*Lget -i\*Vlist\*O).
The procedure will combine all other deltas.
.LI "\*L-o\*O" 
Accesses the reconstructed file at the release of the delta to be
created for each \*Lget -e\*O generated; otherwise, accesses the
reconstructed file at the most recent ancestor.  Using the \*L-o\*O
flag may decrease the size of the reconstructed SCCS file.  It may also
alter the shape of the delta tree of the original file.
.LI "\*L-p\*VSID\*O" 
Specifies the SID of the oldest delta for the resulting
procedure to preserve.  All older deltas are combined in the
reconstructed file.
.LI "\*L-s\*O" 
Causes \*Lcomb\*O to generate a shell procedure that, instead of combining the
deltas, produces a report for each file, which lists the filename, size
(in blocks) after combining, original size (also in blocks), and percentage
change computed by the following formula:
.iS
100 * (\*Voriginal\*O \*L-\*O \*Vcombined\*O\*L) /\*O \*Voriginal\*O
.iE
.PP
Run \*Lcomb\*O using this flag before actually combining SCCS deltas
in order to judge how much space will actually be saved by the combining
process.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "comb command"
.iX "SCCS" "combining deltas"
.iX "deltas" "combining
.PP 
By piping the output of \*Lcomb\*O to a shell, or redirecting the output to a
file and running that file as a shell procedure, you can reduce the size of
your SCCS file. You can first see how much the file will be reduced by
running \*Lcomb\*O with the \*L-s\*O flag.
.PP 
If you specify a directory in place of \*Vfile\*O, \*Lcomb\*O
performs the requested actions on all SCCS files (that is, those with
filenames with the \*Ls\&.\*O prefix).  If you specify a
\*L-\*O (dash) in place of \*Vfile\*O, \*Lcomb\*O reads
standard input and interprets each line as the name of an SCCS file.
\*Lcomb\*O continues to take input until it reads End-of-File.
.PP 
If you do not specify any flags, \*Lcomb\*O preserves only leaf
deltas and the minimal number of ancestors needed to preserve the tree
(see the \*Ldelta\*O command).
.PP 
The \*Lcomb\*O command may rearrange the shape of the tree deltas.
.PP 
The \*Lcomb\*O command may not save any space; in fact,
it is possible for the reconstructed
file to actually be larger than the original.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP 
.AL 3m 
.LI
To  generate a report on how much space will be saved by combing
all deltas older than SID 1.4 for SCCS file \*Ls.test.c\*O, enter:
.iS
comb -p1.4 -s s.test.c | sh
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To actually combine the deltas, enter:
.iS
comb -p1.4 s.test.c | sh
\*O\c
.iE
.LE 
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 11m
.LI "\*Ls.COMB$$\*O"
.LI "\*Lcomb$$\*O" 
Temporary files.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Ladmin\*O(1), \*Lcdc\*O(1), \*Ldelta\*O(1),
\*Lget\*O(1), \*Lprs\*O(1), \*Lrmdel\*O(1), \*Lsact\*O(1), \*Lsccsdiff\*O(1),
\*Lsccshelp\*O(1), \*Lunget\*O(1), \*Lval\*O(1), \*Lwhat\*O(1).
.PP 
Files:  \*Lsccsfile\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
