.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: comm.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/19 16:20:55 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH comm 1
.SH NAME
\*Lcomm\*O \- Compares two sorted files.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lcomm\*O
[\*L\-123\*O]
\*Vfile1 file2\*O
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-1\*O"
Suppresses output of the first column (lines in
\*Vfile1\*O only).
.LI "\*L\-2\*O"
Suppresses output of the second column (lines in
\*Vfile2\*O only).
.LI "\*L\-3\*O"
Suppresses output of the third column (lines common to
\*Vfile1\*O and \*Vfile2\*O).
.LE
.PP
The command \*Lcomm \-123\*O produces no output.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "comm command"
.iX "comparing" "sorted files"
.iX "displaying" "lines common to two files"
.iX "displaying" "lines unique to each of two files"
.iX "files" "common lines"
.iX "files" "unique lines"
The \*Lcomm\*O command reads \*Vfile1\*O and \*Vfile2\*O
and writes three columns to standard output, showing which lines are common
to the files and which are unique to each.
.PP
The leftmost column of standard output includes lines that are in
\*Vfile1\*O only.  The middle column includes lines that
are in \*Vfile2\*O only.  The rightmost column includes lines that are in
both \*Vfile1\*O and \*Vfile2\*O.
.PP
If you specify a hyphen (\*L\-\*O) in place of one of the filenames, \*Lcomm\*O
reads standard input.
.PP
Generally, \*Vfile1\*O and \*Vfile2\*O are sorted according to the
collating sequence specified by the \*LLC_COLLATE\*O environment variable.
.gL "collating sequence"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
(See \*Lsort\*O(1).)
.\" (See \*Lctab\*O(1) and \*Lsort\*O(1).)
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
In the following examples,
\*Lfile1\*O contains the following sorted list of North American cities:
.iS
Anaheim
Baltimore
Boston
Chicago
Cleveland
Dallas
Detroit
Kansas City
Milwaukee
Minneapolis
New York
Oakland
Seattle
Toronto
.iE
.PP
The second file, \*Lfile2\*O, contains this sorted list:
.iS
Atlanta
Chicago
Cincinnati
Houston
Los Angeles
Montreal
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
San Diego
San Francisco
St. Louis
.iE
.PP
To display the lines unique to each file and common to the two files, enter:
.iS
comm file1 file2
.iE
.PP
This command results in the following output:
.oS
Anaheim
	Atlanta
Baltimore
Boston
		Chicago
	Cincinnati
Cleveland
Dallas
Detroit
	Houston
Kansas City
	Los Angeles
Milwaukee
Minneapolis
	Montreal
		New York
Oakland
	Philadelphia
	Pittsburgh
	San Diego
	San Francisco
Seattle
	St. Louis
Toronto
.oE
.PP
The leftmost column contains lines in \*Lfile1\*O only, the middle column
contains lines in \*Lfile2\*O only, and the rightmost column contains
lines common to both files.
.PP
To display any one or two of the three output columns,
include the appropriate
flags to suppress the columns you do not want.  For example, the
following command displays columns 1 and 2 only:
.sp
.iS
comm \-3 file1 file2
.iE
.oS
Anaheim
	Atlanta
Baltimore
Boston
	Cincinnati
Cleveland
Dallas
Detroit
	Houston
Kansas City
	Los Angeles
Milwaukee
Minneapolis
	Montreal
Oakland
	Philadelphia
	Pittsburgh
	San Diego
	San Francisco
Seattle
	St. Louis
Toronto
.oE
.PP
The following command displays output from only the second column:
.iS
comm \-13 file1 file2
.iE
.oS
Atlanta
Cincinnati
Houston
Los Angeles
Montreal
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
San Diego
San Francisco
St. Louis
.oE
.PP
The following command displays output from only the third column:
.sp
.iS
comm \-12 file1 file2
.iE
.oS
Chicago
New York
.oE
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L0\*O"
Successful completion
.LI "\*L>0\*O"
Error occurred
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcmp\*O(1),
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Removed references to ctab(1) and ctab(4), which are obsolete.
.\" \*Lctab\*O(1),
\*Ldiff\*O(1),
\*Lsdiff\*O(1), \*Lsort\*O(1), \*Luniq\*O(1).
.\" .PP
.\" Files:  \*Lctab\*O(4).
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.EQ
delim off
.EN
