.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: command.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/18 20:36:00 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH command 1
.SH NAME
\*Lcommand\*O \- Treats command arguments as simple commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lcommand\*O
\*O[\*L\(hyp\*O]
\*Vcommand_name\*O
\*O[\*Vargument\*O\ \&.\&.\&.]
.IP
\*Lcommand\*O
\*O[\*L\(hyv\*O|\*L\(hyV\*O]
\*Vcommand_name\*O
.sE
.PP
The \*Lcommand\*O command causes the shell to treat the arguments
to \*Lcommand\*O as simple commands,
and suppresses the default shell function lookup.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Performs the command search using a default value for \*LPATH\*O
that is guaranteed to find all of the standard utilities.
.LI "\*L-v\*O"
Writes a string to standard output that indicates the pathname or command to be used by the
shell in the current shell execution environment to invoke \*Vcommand_name\*O.
.LI "\*L-V\*O"
Writes a string to standard output that indicates how the name given in the
\*Vcommand_name\*O operand will be interpreted by the shell in the current shell
execution environment.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "command command"
.PP
The \*Lcommand\*O command allows you to run the following commands:
.ML
.LI
User-defined commands whose names correspond to shell built-in commands.
.LI
System commands whose names correspond to shell built-in commands.
.LE
.PP
The \*Vcommand_name\*O argument specifies the name of a utility.  The one
or more optional arguments to \*Vcommand_name\*O specify strings treated as
arguments to the specified utility.
It also provides information concerning how a command
name will be interpreted by the shell.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To ensure execution of the simple command \*Lpwd\*O instead
of the \*Lpwd\*O shell built-in command, enter:
.iS
command -p pwd
.iE
.PP
The preceding command displays the full pathname of the
current directory, and does not perpetuate a view of the
current directory location created by links as the
shell built-in command might do.
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "126"
The utility specified by \*Lcommand_name\*O was found but could not be
invoked.
.LI "127"
An error occurred in the \*Lcommand\*O command, or the
utility specified by the \*Vcommand_name\*O argument could
not be invoked.
.LE
.PP
If no error occurs,
the exit status of \*Lcommand\*O is that of the command
specified by the arguments to \*Lcommand\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Venv\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
