.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: comp.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:26:07 $
.\"
.TH comp 1
.SH NAME
comp \- compose a message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B comp
[
\*Vmsg\*O
] [
\*V+folder\*O
] [
\*Voptions\*O
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.\" .SH Arguments
.\" .IP
.\" If you do not supply a \f2msg\f1 or \f2+folder\f1 argument,
.\" \*Lcomp\*O
.\" creates a new draft in your draft folder, or in the
.\" \*Ldraft\*O
.\" file if you do not have a draft folder set up.
.\"
.\"
.\" .IP \f2msg\f1 10
.\" The message that
.\" \*Lcomp\*O
.\" uses as the basis of the new draft.
.\" If you do not have a draft folder set up,
.\" \*Lcomp\*O
.\" takes the named message from your current folder.
.\" If you do have a draft folder set up,
.\" \*Lcomp\*O
.\" takes the message from your draft folder.
.\" The mail system asks you what you want to do with the existing message.
.\"
.\"
.\" .IP \f2+folder\f1 10
.\" The folder from which
.\" \*Lcomp\*O
.\" takes the new draft message.
.\" The
.\" \*Lcomp\*O
.\" command will take the current message from the named folder
.\" as the basis of the new draft.
.\" The mail system asks you what you want to do with the existing message.
.\" You cannot supply both \f2msg\f1 and \f2+folder\f1 arguments.
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "comp command"
.iX "creating messages"
Use \*Lcomp\*O to create a new message for mailing.
When you run \*Lcomp\*O, it provides a message template for you to fill in
and invokes an editor so that you can complete the message.
.\"
.\" ***Info from old Arguments section follows
.PP
The \*Lcomp\*O command normally creates the new message in your draft folder,
if you have one set up, or in the \*Ldraft\*O
file if you do not have a draft folder set up.
If you wish to use an existing message as the basis of your new
draft message, you can use the
\*Vmsg\*O
or
\*V+folder\*O
arguments.
The
\*V+folder \*O
argument takes the current message in the named folder
as the basis of the new draft message.
The
\*Vmsg \*O
argument takes the named message from your draft folder,
or if you do not have a draft folder set up, from your current folder.
In both cases, the mail system asks you
what you want to do with the existing message.
You cannot use the
\*Vmsg\*O
and
\*V+folder\*O
arguments together.
.\"
.\" ***End of info from old Arguments section
.\"
.PP
A mail message consists of a mail header and the body of the message.
The mail header contains all the information that
determines who is going to receive the mail message.
.\"
.\" and what transport system it is carried over (X.400 or SMTP).
.\"
It can also give the recipients some information about the sender.
The body of the message is the actual text of the message
that you want to send.
The header is separated from the body of the text
by a blank line or by a line of dashes.
The header must be separated from the body of the message in this way
for the message to be identified properly when it is
sent; see \*Lsend\*O(1).
.PP
The standard message header looks like this:
.oS
To:
cc:
Subject:
.\" X-mts:
--------
.oE
.PP
You can specify an alternative mail header by setting up a file called
\*Lcomponents\*O in your Mail directory.
This is used instead of the default mail header by \*Lcomp\*O.
.PP
If you do not have a draft folder set up, \*Lcomp\*O creates
your new draft in a file called \*Ldraft\*O in your Mail directory.
This file must be empty before you can create a new draft,
which means that you can only store one draft at a time.
If it is not empty, the mail system will ask you
what you want to do with the existing contents.
The options are:
.TP 10
\*Lquit\*O
Aborts \*Lcomp\*O, leaving the draft intact.
.TP 10
\*Lreplace\*O
Replaces the existing draft with the appropriate message form.
.TP 10
\*Luse\*O
Allows you to edit the existing draft.
.TP 10
\*Llist\*O
Displays the draft message.
.TP 10
\*Lrefile\*O
Refiles the existing draft message in the specified folder,
and provides a new message form for you to complete.
.PP
If you want to have more than one draft at a time,
you can set up a draft folder in your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O.
This allows you to keep as many unsent drafts as space allows,
and still create new messages as you wish.
To do this, make sure that the following line is in your
\*L\&.mh_profile\*O:
.oS
Draft-folder: +drafts
.oE
For more information on how to do this, see \*Lmh_profile\*O(4).
.PP
If you set up a draft folder,
all draft messages are created in that folder.
If you decide not to send the draft, by typing
\*Lquit\*O at the \*LWhat now?\*O prompt,
the message is stored in the draft folder.
You can then re-edit the message, or send it at a later date,
by using the
.B \-use
option to \*Lcomp\*O.
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.PP
You can specify whether you wish to send the
message to X.400 or non-X.400 users by entering a
value in the \*LX-mts:\*O field of the header.
There are two valid entries:
\*Lx400\*O for messages to be sent to X.400 users;
\*Lsmtp\*O for messages to non-X.400 users.
These entries are case-insensitive.
You cannot send a single message to both X.400
and non-X.400 users; you must choose one or the other.
If you do not make an entry in the \*LX-mts:\*O field,
or if you make an invalid entry,
the default is to assume non-X.400 transport.
If you do enter a valid value in the \*LX-mts:\*O field,
this will override any option you specify later by using the
.B \-mts
\*Vmtsname\*O
option with \*Lsend\*O or \*Lwhom\*O.
If you wish to override the entry in the \*LX-mts:\*O field,
you must edit the draft message to remove or change it.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP "\-draftfolder \f2+folder\fP" 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nodraftfolder 10
.PD
Specifies the folder in which the draft message is created.
If you do not send the draft, it is stored in this folder.
.IP
This option is usually set up in your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O.
See \*Lmh_profile\*O(4) for more information.
If you have this option set up, you can
override it by using the
.B \-nodraftfolder
option.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-draftmessage\ \f2file\fP
Specifies the name of a file in which a draft message is created.
If no absolute pathname is given, this file
is assumed to be in your Mail directory.
If the file already exists, the mail system will ask you
what you want to do with its contents
before the draft message is created.
.IP
If the named file does not contain a message header, the
.B \-draftmessage
option does not create one.
If you want to create a message in an empty file, use the
.B \-file
option.
You cannot use
.B \-draftmessage
to specify a file name with the
.B \-draftfolder
option.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-editor\ \f2editor-name\fP
Specifies the editor used to create the draft message.
The default editor is \*Lprompter\*O;
see \*Lprompter\*O(1).
You can specify any approved editor as an alternative.
.IP
If you regularly use the same editor, you can specify it
in the \*LEditor:\*O
line of your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O.
The following entry sets up \*Lvi\*O as the editor you use
to compose mail messages:
.oS
Editor: /usr/ucb/vi
.oE
.\"
.\"
.IP \-file\ \f2filename\fP
Uses the named file to create the draft message in.
If no absolute pathname is given,
the file is assumed to be in your Mail directory.
If the file already exists, the mail system will ask you
what you want to do with its contents before the draft is created.
.IP
Unlike the
.B \-draftmessage
option, this option creates a message header for a new draft.
This means that you can create a draft in an empty file
and send it successfully.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-form\ \f2form-file\fP
Specifies an alternative mail header for your draft.
The named \f2form-file\fP contains a message header, which \*Lcomp\*O
uses when it creates the draft message.
If no absolute pathname is given, it is assumed that the
file is in your Mail directory.
.IP
If you do not specify the
.B \-form
option, \*Lcomp\*O takes the message header
from the \*Lcomponents\*O file
in your Mail directory, or, if this does not exist,
it uses the system default header.
.IP
You cannot use the
.B \-form
option with either a
\*V+folder\*O
or a
\*Vmsgs\*O
argument.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-help
Prints a list of the valid options for this command.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-noedit
Creates a draft without invoking an editor.
You are placed immediately at the
\*LWhat now?\*O prompt, without being given the
opportunity to edit the draft at all.
This option is only useful if you are sending an existing
draft using the
.B \-use
option to \*Lcomp\*O. Otherwise it will produce a draft with
no addresses and no content.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.IP \-template\ [\f2editorname\f3]
Helps you to construct correct X.400 addresses in message headers.
For each appropriate field, the \*Ltemplate\*O program
first asks whether you want to create
an address in that field;
if you do, it will prompt you for the individual
attributes of an X.400 address.
When you have completed all the addresses for your message,
exit from
.B \-template
utility, and the addresses are entered in the correct fields of
your draft message.
You can then continue to create the message in the usual way.
.IP
You can specify your own choice of editor to fill in
the template by using the
.B \-template
\*Veditorname\*O
option.
This can be different from the editor you use for the
body of the mail message.
The default editor for
.B \-template
is \*Lprompter\*O.
If you regularly use the same editor for the template
you can specify it in the
\*LTemplate\-Editor:\*O
line of your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O.
See \*Ltemplate\*O(1) for more information.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.\"
.IP \-use 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nouse 10
.PD
Uses an existing draft as the new draft message.
If you have saved a previous unsent draft in
a drafts folder or in the \*Ldraft\*O file,
you can edit and send it using the
.B \-use
option.
The previous draft is displayed on your screen and
the editor is invoked to allow you to edit the draft.
When you exit from the editor, you receive the
\*LWhat now?\*O prompt in the usual way.
.IP
If you have a draft folder set up, or specify one with the
.B \-draftfolder
option,
the mail system will use the current draft in that folder as
the new draft message.
If you do not have a draft folder, it will use the contents of the
\*Ldraft\*O file.
If you do not want to use the current message in a folder,
you can supply a message number.
You can also use a message in a file by giving the file name
using the
.B \-file
or the
.B \-draftmessage
options.
.IP
If you want to send an existing draft without editing it
further, you can supply the
.B \-use
option in conjunction with the
.B \-noedit
option.
This will place you at the \*LWhat now?\*O prompt
without invoking an editor.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-whatnowproc\ \f2program\fP
.PD 0
.IP \-nowhatnowproc
.PD
Specifies an alternative \*Lwhatnow\*O program.
Normally, \*Lcomp\*O invokes the default \*Lwhatnow\*O program.
See \*Lwhatnow\*O(1) for a discussion of available options.
You can specify your own alternative
to the default program using the
.B \-whatnowproc
\*Vprogram\*O
option.
If you do specify your own program, you should not call it \*Lwhatnow\*O.
.IP
You can suppress the \*Lwhatnow\*O program entirely by using the
.B \-nowhatnowproc
option.
However, as the program normally starts the initial edit, the
.B \-nowhatnowproc
option will prevent you from editing the message.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The defaults for \*Lcomp\*O are:
.IP
\*V+foldername\*O
defaults to the current folder
.br
\*Vmsg\*O
defaults to the current message
.br
.B \-nodraftfolder
.br
.B \-nouse
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:\f1+To determine your Mail directory
Draft-Folder\f1:+To find the default draft folder
Editor:\f1+To override the default editor
.\"
.\" Template-Editor:+To override the default editor for the template
.\"
Msg-Protect\f1:+To set mode when creating a new message (draft)
fileproc:\f1+Program to refile the message
whatnowproc:\f1+Program to ask the \*(lqWhat now?\*(rq questions
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L/usr/lib/mh/components\*O
The default system template for draft messages.
.TP
\*L<mh\-dir>/components\*O
The user-supplied alternative to the default draft template.
.TP
\*L$HOME/\&.mh_profile\*O
Your user profile.
.TP
\*L<mh\-dir>/draft\*O
The draft file.
.\" .TP
.\" \*L/usr/bin/mh/template\*O
.\" The template program.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Ldist\*O(1), \*Lforw\*O(1), \*Lprompter\*O(1), \*Lrepl\*O(1),
\*Lsend\*O(1),
.\" \*Ltemplate\*O(1),
\*Lwhatnow\*O(1), \*Lmh_profile\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
