.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: compress.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/08 12:30:07 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH compress 1
.SH NAME
\*Lcompress\*O, \*Luncompress\*O, \*Lzcat\*O \- Compresses and expands data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lcompress\*O
\*O[\*L-cCdfFnqvV\*O]
\*O[\*L-b\*O
\*Vbits\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O
\&.\&.\&.]
.PP
\*Luncompress\*O
\*O[\*L-cCfFnqvV\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O
\&.\&.\&.]
.PP
\*Lzcat\*O
[\*L-n\*O] 
\*O[\*Vfile\*O
\&.\&.\&.]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-b\*O \*Vbits\*O"
Specifies the maximum number of bits to use to replace common
substrings in the file.  The default for \*Vbits\*O
is 16, with values of 9 through 16 acceptable.
First, the algorithm uses 9-bit codes 257 through 512.
Then it uses 10-bit codes, continuing until the \*Vbits\*O limit is
reached.  (This is not permitted with the \*Luncompress\*O command).
.IP
After the \*Vbits\*O limit is attained, the \*Lcompress\*O
command periodically checks the compression ratio.  If it is increasing,
\*Lcompress\*O continues to use the existing code dictionary.  However,
if the compression ratio decreases, \*Lcompress\*O
discards the table of substrings and rebuilds it from the beginning.
This allows the algorithm to adapt to the next block of the file.
.IP
The \*L-b\*O flag must be the last flag on the command line.
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Makes \*Lcompress\*O and \*Luncompress\*O
write to the standard output; no files are changed.
The nondestructive behavior of
\*Lzcat\*O is identical to that of \*Luncompress\*O \*L-c\*O.
.LI "\*L-C\*O"
Produces output compatible with \*Lcompress\*O 2.0.
.LI "\*L-d\*O"
Uncompresses a file.
.LI "\*L-f\*O or \*L-F\*O"
Forces the compression or uncompression of \*Vfile\*O even if
it already exists.
If you run the command in the background under \*L/bin/sh\*O or if \*L-f\*O
is not specified, you are prompted as to whether an existing
\*Vfile\*O should be overwritten.
.LI "\*L-n\*O"

Specifies that no header has been added. 
.LI "\*L-q\*O"
Specifies a quiet operation. This is the default. Diagnostics messages,
which display if you specify the \*L-v\*O flag, do not print.
.LI "\*L-v\*O"
Prints the percentage reduction of each file when compressing the file.
Prints messages to standard error concerning the expansion of each file
when compressing the file.
.LI "\*L-V\*O"
Specifies a version.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "compress command"
.iX "uncompress command"
.iX "zcat command"
.iX "compressing files"
.iX "files" "compressing"
.iX "files" "expanding"
.iX "expanding" "files"
.PP
The \*Lcompress\*O command
reduces the size of the named files using adaptive Lempel-Ziv coding.
.PP
Whenever possible,
each file is replaced by one with the extension \*L\&.Z\*O
while keeping the same ownership modes, access, and modification times.
If no files are specified, the standard input is compressed to the
standard output.
.PP
Compressed files can be restored to their original form using
the \*Luncompress\*O or \*Lzcat\*O command.
.PP
The \*Luncompress\*O command replaces the
compressed \*L.Z\*O file with an uncompressed version of the file, identical
to the file that was originally compressed with \*Lcompress\*O; the \*L.Z\*O
suffix is removed.  When issuing an \*Luncompress\*O command, you can refer to
the compressed target file with or without the \*L.Z\*O suffix. If you do not
specify the suffix, \*Luncompress\*O assumes it.
.PP
The \*Lzcat\*O command
writes the uncompressed version of a compressed file to standard
output.  The compressed (\*L.Z\*O) files remain intact. The \*Lzcat\*O command
is
identical to \*Luncompress -c\*O.  When issuing a \*Lzcat\*O command, you
can refer to the compressed target file with or without the \*L.Z\*O suffix;
if you do not specify the suffix, \*Lzcat\*O assumes it.
.PP
The \*Lcompress\*O command
uses the modified Lempel-Ziv algorithm popularized in
.gL "Lempel-Ziv algorithm"
"A Technique for High Performance Data Compression,"
Terry A. Welch, \*VIEEE Computer,\*O vol. 17, no. 6 (June 1984), pp. 8-19.
.PP
The amount of compression obtained depends on the size of the
input, the number of bits
per code, and the distribution of common substrings.
Typically, files containing source code or plain text are
reduced by 50 to 60%.  Compression is generally
much better than that achieved by
Huffman coding (as used in the \*Lpack\*O command) or adaptive Huffman coding,
.gL "Huffman coding"
and takes less time to compute.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To compress \*Lfolder\*O and print the savings, enter:
.iS
compress -v foo
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The system responds with a message like:
.oS
\*Cfolder: Compression: 43.94% -- replaced with folder.Z
\*O\c
.oE
.PP
The following command displays the uncompressed version of the
\*Ltestlog.Z\*O
file:
.iS
zcat testlog.Z
\*O\c
.iE
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*CUsage: compress [-fvc] [-b maxbits] [file ...]\*O"
Invalid arguments were specified on the command line.
.LI "\*CMissing maxbits\*O"
\*Vmaxbits\*O must follow \*L-b\*O.
.LI "\*Vfile\*O \*Cnot in compressed format\*O"
\*Vfile\*O cannot be uncompressed because it was never compressed.
.LI "\*Vfile\*O \*Ccompressed with\*O \*Vxx\*O \*Cbits, can only handle\*O \*Vyy\*O \*Cbits\*O."
\*Vfile\*O was compressed by a program that could deal with more
bits than the compress code on this machine.
Recompress the file with smaller bits.
.LI "\*Vfile\*O \*Calready has \&.Z suffix -- no change\*O"
\*Vfile\*O is assumed to be already compressed.
Rename the file and try again.
.LI "\*Vfile\*O \*Calready exists; do you wish to overwrite (y or n)?\*O"
Respond \*Ly\*O, or the locale's equivalent of a \*Ly\*O, if you want the
.gL "locale"
output file to be replaced; \*Ln\*O, or the locale's equivalent
of a \*Ln\*O, if not.  (The \*LLC_MESSAGES\*O variable determines the
locale's equivalent of \*Ly\*O or \*Ln\*O.)
.LI "\*Cuncompress: corrupt input\*O"
A \*LSIGSEGV\*O violation
was detected, which usually means that the input file is corrupted.
.LI "\*CCompression:\*O \*Vxx.xx\*C%\*O"
Percentage of the input saved by compression
(relevant only for \*L-v\*O).
.LI "\*C-- not a regular file: unchanged\*O"
When the input file is not a regular file,
(for example, a directory), it is left unaltered.
.LI "\*C-- has\*O \*Vxx\*O \*Cother links: unchanged\*O"
The input file has links; it is left unchanged.  (See
the \*Lln\*O command for more information.)
.LI "\*C-- file unchanged\*O"
No saving is achieved by compression.  The input remains unchanged.
.LE
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
If an error occurs, exit status is 1.
If the last file was not compressed because it became larger, the status
is 2; otherwise, the status is 0.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lpack\*O(1), \*Lpcat\*O(1), \*Lunpack\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
