.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cp.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.8.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/13 21:54:16 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH cp 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lcp\*O \- Copies files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lcp\*O
\*O[\*L-fhip\*O]
\*O[\*L--\*O]
\*Vsource_file destination_file\*O
.PP
\*Lcp\*O
\*O[\*L-fhip\*O]
\*O[\*L--\*O]
\*Vsource_file\*O
\&...
\*Vdestination_directory\*O
.PP
\*Lcp\*O
\*O[\*L-fhip\*O]
\*O[\*L-r\*O
|
\*L-R\*O]
\*O[\*L--\*O]
\*O[\*Vsource_file\*O
|
\*Vsource_directory\*O]
\&...
\*Vdestination_directory\*O
.sE
.PP
The \*Lcp\*O command copies a source file or the files in a source directory
to a destination file or directory.  If your source and destination are
directories, the source is copied to the destination and created with the
same name.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-f\*O"
The \*Lcp\*O command does not prompt you when
an existing file is to be overwritten.  (If both \*L-f\*O and
\*L-i\*O are specified on the command line \(en for example, because an alias
includes one of them \(en whichever appears last overrides the other.)
.\"Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\"Removed extra "with" and added "only"
.LI "\*L-h\*O"
Forces \*Lcp\*O to follow symbolic links; useful only with
the \*L-r\*O flag, which does not follow symbolic links by default.
.\"End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.LI "\*L-i\*O"
Prompts you with the name of the file whenever the copy would cause an
existing file to be overwritten.  An answer beginning with \*Ly\*O, or the
locale's equivalent of \*Ly\*O, causes \*Lcp\*O to continue.  Any other
answer prevents it from overwriting the file.
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Preserves for the copy the modification time, access time, file mode,
user ID, and group ID of the original, as allowed by permissions.
If the user ID and group ID cannot be preserved, no error
message is displayed and the exit value is not altered.
If the original is set-user-ID or set-group -D, and either the
user ID or the group ID cannot be preserved, the
set-user-ID and set-group-ID bits are not preserved in the
copy's permissions.
.LI "\*L-r\*O"
When the source is a directory, copies the directory
and the entire subtree connected at that point.  Special
file types, such as symbolic links and block and character devices,
are recreated instead of being copied.
.\"Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\"Changed from
.\"Created directories have the same mode as
.\"the corresponding source directory, unmodified...
.\"to
.\"Created directories and files have the same mode as the
.\"corresponding source, unmodified...
.\" Removed above to show present code and be XPG4 compatible.
.LI "\*L-R\*O"
Identical to \*L-r\*O except that special files are not treated
differently from regular files (follows symbolic links).
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Commented out the following sentence per engineering at UNX.
.\" The \*L-r\*O flag is preferred.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L--\*O"
Indicates that the arguments following this flag are to be
interpreted as filenames.  This null flag allows the specification
of filenames that start with a minus.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "cp command"
.iX "files" "copying"
.iX "copying" "files"
If a destination file already exists, its contents are overwritten if
permissions allow, but \*Lcp\*O does not change its mode, user ID,
or group ID.  However, if the file is not being copied by the root user,
writing the file may clear the set-user-ID or set-group-ID
permission bits.
.PP
If the destination file does not exist, the mode of the source file is
used, as modified by the file mode creation mask (umask).  If the
source file is either set-user-ID or set-group-ID, those bits are
removed unless the source file and the destination file are owned by the
same user and group.
.PP
Appropriate permissions are always required for file creation or overwriting.
.PP
You can also copy special device files.  If the file is a named
pipe, the data in the pipe is copied into a regular file.  If the file
is a device, the file is read until the end of file, and that data is
copied into a regular file.
.PP
The \*LLC_MESSAGES\*O variable determines the locale's equivalent
.gL "locale"
of \*Ly\*O or \*Ln\*O (for yes/no queries).
.PP
If the source_file is a directory, the following is true:
.ML
.LI
If neither the -R or -r option was specified, an error message
is displayed and source_file is not copied.
.LI
If the target specified exists and is a file, not a directory, an
error message is displayed and source_file is not copied.
.LI
If the target does not exist and the -p option is specified, the
permission bits of the target directory are set equal to the source
directory bitwise inclusively ORed with S_IRWXU (0700).  This means
the newly created directory will always allow the owner read, write
and execute permission.
.LI
If the target does not exist and the -p option is not specified, the
permission bits of the target directory are set equal to the source
directory bits, modified by the file creation mask of the user (shuts
off the corresponding permission bits specified in the umask).  The
resulting permission bits are then ORed with S_IRWXU (0700) which
gives the owner read, write and execute permission.
.LI
If the target does not exist and cannot be created, an error message
is displayed and source_file is not copied.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To copy one file to another, enter:
.iS
\*Lcp file1 file2\*O
.iE
.IP
If \*Lfile2\*O exists (and is writable), it is replaced by \*Lfile1\*O.
.LI
To copy files to a directory, enter:
.iS
\*Lcp file1 file2 dir1\*O
.iE
.IP
The \*Ldir1\*O directory must exist.
.LI
To copy all files in a directory and preserve their
modification times, enter:
.iS
\*Lcp \-p dir1/* dir2\*O
.iE
.LI
To copy a directory tree to another directory, enter:
.iS
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Changed 'dir1' to 'dir/*' per engineering in UNX.
\*Lcp \-r dir/* dir2\*O
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.iE
.IP
The \*Ldir1\*O tree is created in \*Ldir2\*O.
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
.AL
.LI
Do not give the destination the same name as one of the
source files.
.LI
If you specify a directory as the destination, the directory must already exist.
.LI
If you are using the \*L-r\*O flag to copy the contents of one directory
to another, and \*Vsource_directory\*O contains subdirectories that do not
exist in \*Vdestination_directory\*O, the subdirectories will be created.
.LE
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
The \*Lcp\*O command returns \*L0\*O upon successful completion and
greater than 0 if an error occurs.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lcpio\*O(1), \*Llink\*O(1),
\*Lln\*O(1), \*Lmv\*O(1), \*Lunlink\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
