.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cpio.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.7.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 21:21:03 $
.\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
...\"build rmifdef
.TH cpio 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lcpio\*O \- Copies files to and from archive storage.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "cpio command"
.iX "copying" "files to and from archive storage"
.iX "archive" "storage"
.iX "storage" "archive"
.iX "files" "copying to and from archive storage"
.sS
\*Lcpio\*O
\*L\-o\*O[\*LaBcv\*O]
[\*L\-C\*O
\*Vvalue\*O]
[\*L\-M\*O
\*L\&"\*Vstring\*L\&"\*O]
[\*L\-O\*Vdevice\*O]
.PP
\*Lcpio\*O
\*L\-i\*O[\*LbBcdfmrsStuv6\*O]
[\*L\-C\*O
\*Vvalue\*O]
[\*L\-M\*O
\*L\&"\*Vstring\*L\&"\*O]
[\*L\-I\*Vdevice\*O]
[\*Vpattern\*O
\&...]
.PP
\*Lcpio\*O
\*L\-p\*O[\*Ladlmruv\*O]
\*Vdirectory\*O
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
A hyphen (\*L\-\*O) is required before the
\*L\-i\*O, \*L\-I\*O, \*L\-o\*O, \*L\-O\*O, and \*L\-p\*O flags;
all other flags follow \*L\-i\*O, \*L\-o\*O,
or \*L\-p\*O without leading spaces and without a hyphen.
.PP
The following two flags are preceded by a hyphen and must be used
separately from the other flags.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-I\*Vdevice\*O"
Specifies the input device containing the archive.  This argument must
be present to import data from a device.
.LI "\*L\-O\*Vdevice\*O"
Specifies the output device to store the archive.  This argument must
be present to export data to a device.
.LE
.PP
Not all of the following flags can be used with
each of the \*L\-o\*O, \*L\-i\*O, and \*L\-p\*O flags.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*La\*O"
Resets the access times of copied files to the current time.
(When the \*Ll\*O flag is also specified, the access times of the
linked files are not reset.)
.LI "\*Lb\*O"
Swaps both bytes and halfwords.  (See also the \*Ls\*O and \*LS\*O flags.)
If there is an odd number of bytes or halfwords in the file
being processed, data can be lost.
This flag can only be used with \*Lcpio \-i\*O.
.LI "\*LB\*O"
Performs block input/output, 5120 bytes to a record.  This flag cannot be used
with \*Lcpio \-p\*O.  It is meaningful only with data directed to or from
\*L/dev/rmt/*\*O.
This flag does not work with certain magnetic tape drives.
Note that the \*LC\*O and \*LB\*O flags are mutually exclusive.
If you specify both, the last one on the command line is used.
.LI "\*Lc\*O"
Writes header information in ASCII character form.  Specify this flag
when POSIX compliance is required and
.gL "ASCII"
.gL "POSIX"
when you are creating or restoring archives for or from another system.
.LI "\*LC\*O \*Vvalue\*O"
Performs block input/output using \*Vvalue\*O as the record size.
Note that the \*LC\*O and \*LB\*O flags are mutually exclusive.
If you specify both, the last one on the command line is used.
.LI "\*Ld\*O"
Creates directories as needed.
.LI "\*Lf\*O"
Copies all files except those matching \*Vpattern\*O (\*Lcpio \-i\*O only).
.LI "\*Ll\*O"
Links files rather than copying them, whenever possible.
This flag can only be used with \*Lcpio \-p\*O.
.LI "\*Lm\*O"
Retains the previous file modification time.
This flag cannot be used when copying directories.
.LI "\*LM "\*Vstring\*L"\*O"
Specifies the End-of-Media message.  This flag is used to customize the
message that appears when it is time to change archive volumes.
The \*L\-M\*O flag is valid only when \*L\-I\*O or \*L\-O\*O is also specified.
.LI "\*Lr\*O"
Causes \*Lcpio\*O to ask whether or
not to rename each file before copying it.
If you do not want to change the filename,
enter the current filename.  You can press \*L<Return>\*O only to have
\*Lcpio\*O skip copying the file.
.LI "\*Ls\*O"
Swaps bytes.  This flag can only be used with \*Lcpio \-i\*O.
If there is an odd number of bytes in the file
being processed, data can be lost.
.LI "\*LS\*O"
Swaps halfwords.  This flag can only be used with \*Lcpio \-i\*O.
If there is an odd number of halfwords in the file
being processed, data can be lost.
.LI "\*Lt\*O"
Creates a table of contents of the input.  This flag does not copy any files.
.LI "\*Lu\*O"
Copies unconditionally.  Otherwise, a file from the archive with the
same name as an existing file in the file system is copied
only if the archived file is the newer one.
.LI "\*Lv\*O"
Lists filenames.  If you use this flag with the \*Lt\*O
flag, the output looks similar to that of the \*Lls \-l\*O command.
.LI "\*L6\*O"
Processes an old file (one written in UNIX Sixth
Edition format).  This flag can only be used with \*Lcpio \-i\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lcpio\*O command copies files between archive storage and
the file system.  It is used to save and restore data from
traditional format \*Lcpio\*O archives.
.PP
There are three versions of the \*Lcpio\*O command:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lcpio \-o\*O (copy out)"
This command reads file pathnames from standard input and copies
these files to standard output along with pathnames and status information.
Output is padded to a 512-byte boundary.
.LI "\*Lcpio \-i\*O (copy in)"
This command reads from standard input an archive file
created by the \*Lcpio \-o\*O command and copies from it the files
with names that match \*Vpattern\*O.  These files are copied into
the current directory tree.
The file permissions are the same as the permissions
associated with the files copied out using \*Lcpio \-o\*O.
The owner and group of the files are those of the
current user unless the user is superuser, in which case
\*Lcpio\*O retains the owner and group of the files of the
previous \*Lcpio \-o\*O.
.IP
You can list more than one
\*Vpattern\*O using the filename notation described for the
\*Lsh\*O(1) command.  Note, however, that in this application, the special
characters \*L*\*O (asterisk), \*L?\*O (question mark),
and \*L[ ]\*O (brackets) match the
\*L/\*O (slash) in pathnames, in addition to their use as described
in \*Lsh\*O(1).  The default \*Vpattern\*O is \*L*\*O,
selecting all files in the archive.  In an
expression such as \*L[a-z]\*O, the hyphen means
"through" according to the current collating sequence.  The collating
sequence is determined by the \*LLC_COLLATE\*O environment variable.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Commenting out reference to the user's guide because the
.\" DEC OSF/1 User's Guide does not currently have I18N information.
.\" See 
.\" "Using Internationalization Features" in 
.\" the \*(Gu for more
.\" information on collating sequences.
.LI "\*Lcpio \-p\*O (directory copy)"
This command reads file pathnames from standard input and copies
these files into the named directory.
The specified directory must already exist.  If these pathnames include
directory names and if these directories do not already exist, you must
use the \*L\-d\*O flag to cause the directories to be created.
.IP
Special files are not supported.  Pathnames cannot exceed 128 bytes.
Avoid giving \*Lcpio\*O pathnames made up of many uniquely linked files
because \*Lcpio\*O might not have enough memory to keep track of them
and could lose linking information.
.LE
.SH CAUTIONS
.PP
When redirecting the output from \*Lcpio\*O to a special file
(device), redirect it to the raw device and not the block
device.  Because writing to a block device is done asynchronously, there
is no way to know if the end of the device has been reached.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL 3m
.LI
To copy files onto magnetic tape, enter:
.iS
cpio \-ov < \*Vfile-list\*L \-O/dev/rmt12
.iE
.IP
This command copies the files with pathnames that are listed in the file
specification in a compact form onto the magnetic tape
(\*L/dev/rmt12\*O).  The \*L\-v\*O flag causes
\*Lcpio\*O to display the name of each file as it is copied.  This
command is useful for making backup copies of files.
.LI
To copy files in the current directory whose names
end with \*L\&.c\*O onto magnetic tape, enter:
.iS
ls *.c | cpio \-ov \-O/dev/rmt12
.iE
.LI
To copy the current directory and all subdirectories onto magnetic tape, enter:
.iS
find . \-print | cpio \-ov \-O/dev/rmt12
.iE
.IP
This command saves the directory tree that starts with the current directory
(\&.) and includes all of its subdirectories and files.
Another way to do the same thing is by entering the following command:
.iS
find . \-cpio /dev/rmt12 \-print
.iE
.IP
The \*L\-print\*O flag displays the name of each file as it is copied.
.LI
To list the files that have been saved onto a magnetic tape with
\*Lcpio\*O, enter:
.iS
cpio  \-itv  \-I/dev/rmt12
.iE
.IP
This command displays the table of contents of the data previously saved
onto \*L/dev/rmt12\*O in \*Lcpio\*O format.
To list only the file pathnames, use only the \*L\-it\*O flags.
.LI
To copy the files previously saved with \*Lcpio\*O from a
magnetic tape, enter:
.iS
cpio  \-idmv  \-I/dev/rmt12
.iE
.IP
This command copies the files previously saved onto \*L/dev/rmt12\*O
by \*Lcpio\*O back into the file system (specified by the \*L\-i\*O flag).
The \*L\-d\*O flag allows \*Lcpio\*O to create the appropriate
directories if a directory tree was saved.  The \*L\-m\*O flag
maintains the last modification time that was in effect when the files
were saved.  The \*L\-v\*O flag causes \*Lcpio\*O to display the
name of each file as it is copied.
.LI
To copy selected files from magnetic tape, enter:
.iS
cpio  \-i  \-I/dev/rmt12 "*.c"  "*.o"
.iE
.IP
This command copies the files that end with \*L\&.c\*O or
\*L\&.o\*O from magnetic tape.  Note that the patterns
\*L*\&.c\*O and \*L*\&.o\*O must be enclosed in double quotation marks (" ")
to prevent the shell from treating the \*L*\*O (asterisk)
as a pattern-matching character.  In this special case,
\*Lcpio\*O itself decodes the pattern-matching characters.
.LI
To rename files as they are copied from magnetic tape, enter:
.iS
cpio  \-ir  \-I/dev/rmt12
.iE
.IP
The \*L\-r\*O flag causes \*Lcpio\*O to ask you whether or
not to rename each file before copying it from magnetic tape.  For example,
the following message asks you whether you want to give the file saved as 
\*Lprog.c\*O a new name as it is being copied:
.oS
Rename  <prog.c>
.oE
.IP
To rename the file, type the new name and press \*L<Return>\*O.
To keep the same name, you must enter the old name at the prompt.
To avoid copying the file at all, press \*L<Return>\*O alone.
.LI
To copy a directory and all of its subdirectories, enter:
.iS
mkdir  /u/jim/newdir
find  .  \-print | cpio  \-pdl  /u/jim/newdir
.iE
.IP
This command duplicates the current directory tree, including the current
directory and all of its subdirectories and files.  The duplicate is
placed in the new \*L/u/jim/newdir\*O directory.  The
\*L\-l\*O flag causes \*Lcpio\*O to link files instead of
copying them, when possible.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lar\*O(1), \*Lfind\*O(1), \*Lls\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1), \*Ltar\*O(1)
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Commenting out reference to the user's guide because the
.\" DEC OSF/1 User's Guide does not currently have I18N information.
.\" "Using Internationalization Features" in the 
.\" \*(Gu.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.EQ
delim off
.EN
