.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: crontab.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.8.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/18 12:34:58 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.TH crontab 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lcrontab\*O \- Submits a schedule of commands to \*Lcron\*O
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "crontab command"
.iX "files" "crontab"
.iX "scheduling commands"
.iX "commands" "submitting a schedule"
.sS
\*Lcrontab\*O
\*O[\*Vfile\*O]
.PP
\*Lcrontab\*O
\*L\-l\*O
|
\*L\-v\*O
|
\*L\-r\*O
|
\*L\-e\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lcrontab\*O command copies the specified file or
standard input if you do not specify a file into
the \*L/var/spool/cron/crontabs\*O directory, which
holds all users' crontab files.
The \*Lcron\*O command runs commands according to the instructions in the
crontab files.  The crontab files are named for users, and the
commands in the files are run under the user's authority.  For
example, the commands in the \*L/var/spool/cron/crontabs/root\*O file
are run under \*Lroot\*O authority.  When you use the \*Lcrontab\*O
command, the file under your authority is affected.  For example, if
\*Ladm\*O invokes the \*Lcrontab -l\*O command, the
\*L/var/spool/cron/crontabs/adm\*O file is displayed
.PP
After \*Lcron\*O runs commands according to the contents of your
crontab file, it mails you the output from standard
output and standard error for these commands, unless you redirect
standard output or standard error.
.PP
.RS
NOTE:
.PP
When entries are made to a crontab file by using the
\*Lcrontab\*O command, all previous entries in the file are removed.
.RE
.PP
You can use the \*Lcrontab\*O command if your username appears in the
\*L/usr/lib/cron/cron.allow\*O file.  If that file does not exist,
the \*Lcrontab\*O command checks the \*L/usr/lib/cron/cron.deny\*O file
to determine if you should be denied access to \*Lcrontab\*O.
The \*Lallow\*O/\*Ldeny\*O files contain one username per line.
If neither file exists, you can submit a job only if you are operating
with superuser authority.
.PP
Each \*Lcrontab\*O file entry consists of a line with
six fields, separated by spaces and tabs.  The information in the
fields specifies when the command runs and the name of the command.  The
fields specify the following:
.ML
.LI
The first field specifies the minute (0 to 59).
.LI
The second field specifies the hour (0 to 23).
.LI
The third field specifies the day of the month (1 to 31).
.LI
The fourth field specifies the month of the year (1 to 12).
.LI
The fifth field specifies the day of the week (0 to 6 for Sunday to
Saturday).
.LI
The sixth field specifies the shell command to be executed.
.LE
.PP
You can specify the following values in the fields that indicate the time:
.ML
.LI
An integer (within the appropriate range of values)
.LI
Two integers separated by a dash to indicate an inclusive range
.LI
A list of integers separated by commas
.LI
An asterisk to select all possible values
.LE
.PP
Note that you can specify the days on which the command is run
in two fields (day of the month and day of the week).  You can specify
both fields, or you can specify only one field.
To use only one field to specify the days, the
other field should contain an asterisk (\*L*\*O).
.PP
For example, the following entry
runs \*Vcommand\*O at midnight on the first and fifteenth days of each
month, as well as every Monday:
.iS
0 0 1,15 * 1 \*Vcommand\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The \*Lcron\*O program runs the command named in the sixth field
at the specified date and time.  If you include a percent sign
(\*L%\*O) in the sixth field, \*Lcron\*O treats everything that
precedes it (in that field) as the command invocation, and makes all
that follows it available to standard input, unless you escape
the percent sign (\*L\e%\*O) or double quote it (\*L"%"\*O).  An
exclamation point (\*L!\*O)
in the sixth field is translated as a newline character.
.PP
Note that the shell runs only the
first line of the command field (up to a percent sign or End-of-Line).
All other lines are made available to the command as standard input.
.PP
The \*Lcron\*O program invokes a subshell from your
\*L$HOME\*O directory.  This means that it will not
run your \*L\&.profile\*O file.  If you schedule a command to run
when you are
not logged in and you want to have commands in your \*L\&.profile\*O
run, you must explicitly do so in the crontab file.  (For a
more detailed discussion of how \*Lsh\*O can be invoked, see the
\*Lsh\*O command.)
.PP
The \*Lcron\*O program supplies a default environment for every shell,
defining \*LHOME\*O, \*LLOGNAME\*O, \*LSHELL\*O (=\*L/usr/bin/sh\*O),
and \*LPATH\*O (=\*L:/usr/bin\*O).
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.PP
To submit commands to the \*Lcron\*O daemon, invoke the \*Lcrontab\*O
command with the \*L\-e\*O flag, or perform the following tasks:
.AL
.LI
Become the user that corresponds to the appropriate file in the
\*L/usr/spool/cron/crontabs\*O directory.  For example, if you want
to submit commands that will run under \*Ladm\*O authority, become
user \*Ladm\*O.
.LI
Use the \*Lcrontab\*O
command with the \*L\-l\*O
flag to copy the appropriate file from the
\*L/usr/spool/cron/crontabs\*O
directory to a temporary file in your home directory.  For example, if you are
user \*Ladm\*O, you could use the following command:
.oS
crontab \-l > temp_adm
.oE
.LI
Edit the temporary file and add the commands you want to run at a
specified time.
.LI
Use the \*Lcrontab\*O command and specify the temporary file
to submit the commands to the \*Lcron\*O daemon.
.LE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-e\*O"
Edits a copy of your \*Lcrontab\*O entry.  If the
\*Lcrontab\*O entry does not exist, creates an empty entry to edit.  The
\*L\-e\*O flag invokes the editor specified by the \*LEDITOR\*O
environment variable, or uses \*L/usr/bin/vi\*O by default.  The \*L
crontab\*O command installs the new entry when editing is complete.
.LI "\*L\-l\*O"
Displays the contents of your crontab file.
.LI "\*L\-r\*O"
Removes the crontab file from the \*Lcrontab\*O directory.
.LI "\*L\-v\*O"
Displays the name of your crontab file and the date and time at
which you submitted it with \*Lcrontab\*O.
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
.AL
.LI
When entries are made to a \*Lcrontab\*O file, all previous entries are
erased.
.LI
If your user ID is associated with more than one username,
\*Lcrontab\*O uses the first username that appears in the
\*L/etc/passwd\*O file, regardless of which username you
might actually be using.
.LI
\*L/usr/lib/cron\*O is a symbolic link to \*L/var/adm/cron\*O.
.LI
If \*Lcron.allow\*O exists, the superuser's username must appear
there for that superuser to be able to use the command.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example writes the time to the console every hour on the hour:
.PP
.iS
0 * * * * echo The hour is `date`. >/dev/console
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The following example runs \*Lcalendar\*O at 6:30 a.m. every Monday,
Wednesday, and Friday:
.PP
.iS
30 6 * * 1,3,5 /usr/bin/calendar \-
.iE
.PP
The following example writes a message to all users logged in at
4:00 p.m. each Friday between December 10 and 31:
.iS
0 16 10\-31 12 5 /usr/sbin/wall%HAPPY HOLIDAYS!  Drive safely!
\*O\c
.iE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 14m
.LI "\*L/var/spool/cron/crontabs\*O"
Directory containing the crontab files.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/cron/cron.allow\*O"
List of allowed users.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/cron/cron.deny\*O"
List of denied users.
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O"
Contains user information.
.LI "\*L$HOME/.profile\*O"
User profile.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcron\*O(8), \*Lmail\*O(1),
\*Lmailx\*O(1),
\*Lsh\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
