.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: csplit.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/20 13:53:23 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH csplit 1
.SH NAME
\*Lcsplit\*O \- Splits files by context
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lcsplit\*O
\*O[\*L-f\*O
\*Vprefix\*O]
\*O[\*L-ks\*O]
\*O[\*L-n\*O\*Vnumber\*O]
\*Vfile\*O
|
\*L-\*O
\*Varg1\&...argn\*O
.sE
.PP
The \*Lcsplit\*O command reads the specified file and separates it
into segments defined by the specified arguments.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-f\*O \*Vprefix\*O"
Specifies the prefix name (\*Lxx\*O by default) for the created file segments.
.LI "\*L-k\*O"
Leaves previously created file segments intact in the event of an error.
.LI "\*L-n\*O \*Vnumber\*O"
Uses \*Vnumber\*O decimal digits to form filenames for the file pieces. The default is 2.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Suppresses the display of file size messages.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "csplit command"
.iX "files" "splitting by context"
.iX "context split of files"
.iX "segmented files"
.PP
If you specify \*L-\*O in place of the input filename, \*Lcsplit\*O reads from
standard input.
.PP
By default, \*Lcsplit\*O writes the file
segments to files named \*Lxx00\*O \&.\&.\&.\*Lxx\*Vn\*O,
where \*Vn\*O is the number of arguments listed on the
command line (\*Vn\*O may not be greater than 99).  These new files
get the following pieces of \*Vfile\*O:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L00\*O"
From the start of \*Vfile\*O up to, but not including, the line
referenced by the first \*Vargument\*O.
.LI "\*L01\*O"
From the line referenced by the first \*Vargument\*O
up to the line referenced by the second \*Vargument\*O.
.LI "\*Vn\*L\(pl1\*O"
From the line referenced by the last \*Vargument\*O to the end
of \*Vfile\*O.
.LE
.PP
The \*Lcsplit\*O command does not alter the original file.
.PP
The operands \*Varg1\&...argn\*O can be a combination of the following:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L/\*Vpattern\*L/\*O[\*Voffset\*O]"
Creates a file using the contents of the lines from the current line up to,
but not including, the line that results from the evaluation of the
regular expression with an offset, if included.
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
The \*Voffset\*O argument can be any integer (positive or negative)
that represents a number of lines.
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.LI "\*L%\*Vpattern\*L%\*O[\*Voffset\*O]"
Has the same effect as \*L/\*Vpattern\*L/\*O, except that no segment
file is created.
.LI "\*L\(pl\*Vnumber\*O"
.LI "\*L-\*Vnumber\*O"
Moves forward or backward the specified number of lines from the
line matched by an immediately preceding \*Vpattern\*O argument
(for example, \*L/Page/-5\*O).
.LI "\*Vline_number\*O"
Creates a file containing the segment from the current line up to,
but not including, \*Vline_number\*O, which becomes the current line.
.LI "\*L{\*Vnumber\*O}"
Repeats the preceding argument the specified number of
times.  This number can follow any of the \*Vpattern\*O or
\*Vline_number\*O arguments.  If it follows a \*Vpattern\*O
argument, \*Lcsplit\*O reuses that pattern the
specified number of times.  If it follows a \*Vline_number\*O
argument, \*Lcsplit\*O splits the file from that point every
\*Vline_number\*O of lines for \*Vnumber\*O times.
.LE
.PP
Quote all \*Vpattern\*O arguments that contain spaces or other
characters special to the shell.  Patterns may not contain embedded
newline characters.
.PP
See \*Lgrep\*O for information about creating patterns.
In an expression such as \*L[a-z]\*O, the dash means
"through" according to the current collating sequence.
.gL "collating sequence"
The collating sequence is determined by the value of the \*LLC_COLLATE\*O
environment variable.
.\" See
.\" "Using Internationalization Features" in the 
.\" \*E***THIS IS NOT A VALID TAG***\*O for more
.\" .gL "internationalization"
.\" information on collating sequences.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding RESTRICTIONS from BL11 Release Notes.
.\".SH RESTRICTIONS [Digital Only]
.PP
.\"The \*Lcsplit\*O utility does not accept regular expressions that contain
.\"collating symbols.  For example, you should be able to use the
.\"\*L[[.ch.]] collating symbol in the Spanish locale with \*Lcsplit\*O,
.\"but the utility considers it an invalid regular expression and returns an
.\"error. N.B. Removing RESTRICTIONS because not in OSF1.2 manpage.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To split the text of a book into a separate file for each chapter, enter:
.iS
csplit book "/^Chapter *[0-9]/" {9} \*O\c
.\"per D. DiJoy, removed space before Chapter in two places.
.iE
.IP
This creates files named \*Lxx00\*O, \*Lxx01\*O,
\*Lxx02\*O,\&.\&.\&.,\*Lxx09\*O, which contain individual
chapters of the file \*Lbook\*O.  Each chapter begins with
a line that contains only the word
\*LChapter\*O and the chapter number.  The file \*Lxx00\*O
contains the front matter that comes before the first chapter.
The \*L{9}\*O after the pattern causes \*Lcsplit\*O
to create up to 9 individual chapters; the remainder are placed in \*Lxx10\*O.
.LI
To specify the prefix for the created filenames, enter:
.iS
csplit -f chap book "/^Chapter *[0-9]/" {9}
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This splits \*Lbook\*O into files named
\*Lchap00\*O, \*Lchap01\*O,\&.\&.\&.\*Lchap9\*O, \*Lchap10\*O.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Led\*O(1)/\*Lred\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1), \*Lsplit\*O(1).
.PP
Files: \*Lregexp\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
