.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ct.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/13 15:11:35 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH ct 1
.SH NAME
\*Lct\*O \- Dials an attached terminal and issues a login process
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lct\*O
\*O[\*L-hv\*O]
\*O[\*L-s\*Vspeed\*O]
\*O[\*L-w\*Vnumber\*O]
\*O[\*L-x\*Vnumber\*O]
\*Vtelephone_number\*O
.sE 
.PP
The \*Lct\*O command
enables a user on a remote terminal to communicate with an OSF/1
system over a telephone line attached to a
modem at each end of the connection.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-h\*O"
Prevents \*Lct\*O from hanging up the current line to answer an incoming call.
.LI "\*L-s\*Vspeed\*O" 
Sets the data rate where \*Vspeed\*O is expressed in baud.  The default
is 1200 baud.
.LI "\*L-v\*O" 
Allows \*Lct\*O to send a running narrative to standard error
output.
.LI "\*L-w\*Vnumber\*O" 
Specifies \*Vnumber\*O as the
maximum number of minutes that \*Lct\*O is to wait for a line.  The command
then dials the remote modem at 1-minute intervals until the connection is
established or the specified time has elapsed.
.LI "\*L-x\*Vnumber\*O" 
Used for debugging.  Produces detailed information about the command's
execution on standard error output on the local system.
The debugging level, \*Vnumber\*O, is a single
digit between 0 and 9.  The recommended default is 9.
.LI "\*Vtelephone_number\*O" 
Specifies the telephone number of the modem attached to the remote
terminal.  \*Vtelephone_number\*O can include the digits 0 - 9,
\*L\-\*O (dashes) representing delays, \*L=\*O (equal signs) representing
secondary dial tones, \*L*\*O (asterisks), and \*L#\*O (number signs).
The phone number can contain a maximum of 31 characters.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "ct command"
.iX "dialing" "attached terminal"
.iX "terminals" "dialing"
.PP 
Once \*Lct\*O establishes a connection, a user on the remote
terminal can log in and work on the system.
.gL "remote terminal"
.gL "remote user"
.gL "local user"
.iX "modems"
.PP 
A user on the local system issues \*Lct\*O with the appropriate
telephone number to call the modem attached to the remote terminal.
When the connection is established, \*Lct\*O issues a login
prompt that is displayed on the remote terminal.  A user on the remote
terminal enters a username at the prompt, and OSF/1 opens a new
shell.  The user at the remote terminal
then proceeds to work on the system just like a local user.
.PP 
However, if there are no free lines, the \*Lct\*O command
displays a message to that effect and asks if the local user
wants to wait for one.  If the reply is \*Lno\*O, the \*Lct\*O
command hangs up.  If the local user wants to wait for a
free line, the \*Lct\*O command prompts for the number of
minutes to wait.  The \*Lct\*O command continues to dial the
remote system at 1-minute intervals until the connection
is established or until the specified amount of time has
elapsed.
.PP 
In order to establish a \*Lct\*O connection, the remote user
contacts the local user with a regular telephone call and
asks the local user to issue the \*Lct\*O command.  However,
if such connections occur regularly at your site, your
system manager might prefer that a
specified local system automatically issues the \*Lct\*O
command to one or more specified terminals at certain
designated times.
.PP 
The \*Lct\*O command is useful in the following situations:
.ML  
.LI 
When a user working offsite needs to communicate with a local system
under strictly supervised conditions.  Because the local system contacts
the remote terminal, the remote user does not need to know the telephone
number of the local system.
Additionally, the local user issuing the \*Lct\*O command
can monitor the work of the remote user.
.LI
When the cost of the connection should be charged either to the
local site, or to a specific account on the calling system.  If the
remote user has the appropriate access permission and can make outgoing
calls on the attached modem, that user can make the equivalent of a
collect call.  The remote user calls the specified local system, logs
in, and issues the phone number of the remote terminal
without the \*L-h\*O flag.  The local system hangs up
the initial link so that the remote terminal is free for an incoming
call, and then calls back to the modem attached to the remote terminal.
.LE 
.PP 
After the user logs out,
\*Lct\*O prompts the user on the remote terminal with a
reconnect option; the system can either
display a new login prompt or drop the line.
.PP 
The \*Lct\*O command is not as flexible as the
\*Lcu\*O command.  For
example, you cannot issue system commands on the local system while connected
to a remote system via \*Lct\*O.  However, the \*Lct\*O command does
have two features not available with \*Lcu\*O:
.ML  
.LI 
You can instruct \*Lct\*O to continue dialing the specified number
until the connection is established or a set amount of time has elapsed.
.LI
You can specify more than one telephone number at a time to instruct
\*Lct\*O to continue dialing each modem until a connection is established
over one of the lines.
.LE 
.PP 
If you specify alternate dialing paths by entering more than one number
on the command line, \*Lct\*O tries each line listed in the
\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O file until it finds an available line with
appropriate attributes, or runs out of entries.  If there are no free lines,
\*Lct\*O asks if it should wait for one, and if so, for how many minutes.
The \*Lct\*O command continues to try to open the dialers at 1-minute
intervals until the specified time is exceeded.  The local user can
override this default by specifying a time with the \*L-w\*Vnumber\*O
flag when entering the command.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
.AL 3m 
.LI
To connect to a modem with an internal number \*L4-1589\*O (the - is
optional), enter:
.iS
ct 41589
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The system responds:
.oS
Allocated dialer at 1200 baud
Confirm hang\(ulup? (y to hang\(ulup)
\*O\c
.oE
.LI
To dial a modem, with a local telephone number, attached to a remote terminal
(dialing 9 for an outside line and specifying a 3-minute wait time), enter:
.iS
ct -w3 9=5551212
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To dial a modem, with a long-distance number, attached to a remote
terminal (specifying an outside line and a five-minute wait), enter:
.iS
ct -w5 9=15555551212
\*O\c
.iE
.LE 
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O"
Information about available devices.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Dialcodes\*O" 
Dialing code abbreviations.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Dialers\*O" 
Initial handshaking on a link.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Permissions\*O" 
Access permission codes.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O" 
Accessible remote systems.
.LE 
.SH NOTES
.PP 
.AL 3m 
.LI
In order to establish a \*Lct\*O connection, the remote user
generally contacts a local user (with a regular phone call) and asks the
local user to issue the command.
.LI
Before issuing the \*Lct\*O command, be certain that the remote
terminal is attached to a modem that can answer the telephone.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lcu\*O(1), \*Llogin\*O(1), \*Ltip\*O(1),
\*Luucico\*O(8), \*Luucleanup\*O(8),
\*Luucp\*O(1), \*Luuencode\*O(1)/\*Luudecode\*O(1), \*Luulog\*O(1),
\*Luuname\*O(1), \*Luupick\*O(1), \*Luusched\*O(8), \*Luusend\*O(1),
\*Luustat\*O(1), \*Luuto\*O(1), \*Luux\*O(1)
.\" , \*Luuxqt\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
