.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ctod.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/09/01 08:43:26 $
.\" 
.TH ctod 1
.SH Name
ctod \- creates a DOTS file for transfer of DDIF or DTIF documents with links
.SH Syntax
.B ctod
[ \-x ] [ \-s ] [ \-c ] 
.I object.[ddif,dtif]
.SH Description
.NXR "ctod command"
The
.cs
ctod
command creates a single DOTS (Data Object Transport
Syntax) file from a DDIF compound document or DTIF file having
external links to multiple subfiles for the purpose of
transferring or mailing the DOTS file from one location to another.
.PP
By default, the
.cs
ctod
command writes the DOTS format to \f2standard output\fP. However, because
DOTS is a binary format, you should redirect the output to a file or pipe.
.PP
The
.I object.[ddif,dtif]
input can be either a file name or a minus sign (\-) for 
\f2standard input\fP. If you specify a minus sign, or if
no file name is present, the
.cs
ctod
command reads from standard input.
.SH Options
.TP 10
.B \-x
Specifies that
.cs
ctod
is to encode the input file in DOTS format. Links to externally referenced
subfiles are not resolved. Use this option only with files containing no
external references.
.TP 10
.B \-s
Specifies that
.cs
ctod 
is to pack the input file or object and its externally linked references,
even if some of the references are missing.  Normally, missing 
references cause a fatal error.
.TP 10
.B \-c
Specifies that 
.cs
ctod
is to pack the reference only if the ExternalReference
reference-control item is set to copy-reference.
By default, all references are packed regardless of the value of the
reference control.
.SH Restrictions
The only DDIS object types supported in this release are DDIF compound
documents and DTIF files.
.SH Diagnostics
If all files were combined successfully, the exit status is 0. 
If any of the files could not be combined, the exit status is 1.  Consult your
\f2standard error\fP location for a description of the
files that could not be combined.
.PP
If you specify the \f3\-x\fP option and
.cs
object.[ddif,dtif]
contains external references,
.cs
ctod
returns an error status of 1 and writes an error message to
\f2standard error\fP.
.PP
If you specify the \f3\-s\fP option, diagnostic messages containing
the names of the missing references are written to \f2standard error\fP.
If the DOTS packing operation is successful, but missing references
are skipped,
.cs
ctod 
returns a success status of 0.
.SH See Also
ddifanls(1), dtifanls(1), 
dtoc(1), cda(4), cda_msg(4), ddif(4), dots(4), dtif(4),
.EQ
delim off
.EN
