.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cu.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/20 09:58:19 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
.TH cu 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lcu\*O \- Connects directly or indirectly to a remote system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lcu\*O
\*O[\*L-dht\*O]
\*O[\*L-e\*O | \*L-o\*O]
\*O[\*L-l\*Vline\*O]
\*O[\*L-s\*Vspeed\*O]
\*L-n\*O
|
\*Vtelephone_number\*O
.PP
\*Lcu\*O
\*O[\*L-dhnt\*O]
\*O[\*L-e\*O | \*L-o\*O]
\*Vsystem\*O
.sE
.PP
The \*Lcu\*O command connects one
system to a remote system.  If the remote system is running the proper
.gL "remote system"
software, \*Lcu\*O provides additional capabilities, such as
file transfer.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-d\*O"
Prints diagnostic traces.
.LI "\*L-e\*O"
Designates that even parity is to be generated for data sent to
the remote system.
.LI "\*L-h\*O"
Emulates local echo, supporting calls to other systems that expect
terminals to be set to half-duplex mode.
.LI "\*L-l\*Vline\*O"
Specifies a device name to use as the communications line.  This
can be used to override the search that would otherwise take place
for the first available line with the right speed.  When the
\*L-l\*O flag is used without the \*L-s\*O flag, the speed of a
line is taken from the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O file.
.IP
When the \*L-l\*O and
\*L-s\*O flags are used together, \*Lcu\*O searches the
\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O file to check whether the requested speed is
available for the specified line.  If so, the connection is made at the
requested speed; otherwise, an error message is printed, and the call is not
made.
.IP
The specified device is generally a hardwired asynchronous line (for
example, \*L/dev/tty2\*O), in which case a telephone number
(\*Vtelephone_number\*O) is not required.
If the specified device is associated with
a modem, a telephone number must be provided.  Using this flag with
\*Vsystem\*O rather than with \*Vtelephone_number\*O does not give the
desired result (see \*Vsystem\*O, which follows).
.IP
Under ordinary circumstances, you should not have to specify the
transmission speed, or a line/device.  The default values
should be sufficient.  (See your system administrator for more information.)
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Prompts you to provide the telephone number to be
dialed, rather than taking it from the command line (for added security).
.LI "\*L-o\*O"
Designates that odd parity is to be generated for data sent to the remote
system.
.LI "\*L-s\*Vspeed\*O"
Specifies the transmission speed (300, 1200, 2400, 4800, or
9600 baud).  The default
value is \*LAny\*O speed, which instructs the system to use the rate
appropriate for the default (or specified) transmission
line.  (The order of the
transmission lines is specified in the
\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O file.)  Most modems operate at 300, 1200, or
2400 baud, while most hardwired lines are set to 1200 baud or higher.
When transferring data such as a file between a local and a
remote system, a speed of 300 baud may occasionally need to
be specified.  The lower baud rate results in less
interference on the line.
.LI "\*L-t\*O"
Used to dial a terminal that has been set to auto-answer.
Appropriate mapping of carriage-return to carriage-return/linefeed pairs is
set.
.LI "\*Vtelephone_number\*O"
When using a modem, the argument is the telephone number, with
appropriately placed equal signs for secondary dial tones, or dashes for
delays of 4 seconds.
.LI "\*Vsystem\*O"
The name of the remote system with which
a connection is established.
A system name can be used rather than a telephone number; in
that case, \*Lcu\*O obtains an appropriate hardwired line or telephone number
from \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O.
System names must be ASCII characters only.
.IP
Do not use the \*Vsystem\*O flag in conjunction with the
\*L-l\*O and \*L-s\*O flags.  If you do, \*Lcu\*O connects to the
first available line for the
requested system name, ignoring the specified line and speed.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "cu command"
.iX "connecting to a remote system"
.iX "remote" "system" "connecting to"
.iX "systems" "remote"
.iX "tilde character"
The \*Lcu\*O command can establish the connection
over a hardwired line, or over a telephone line via a modem.
Once the connection is established, you can be logged in on both systems at
the same time, executing commands on either one without dropping the
communications link.  If the remote computer is also running the
proper software (see \*LAdditional Information\*O), you
can transfer files between the two systems.
.PP
Note that the system should already be configured to use the \*Lcu\*O command.
(See your system administrator for more information.)
.PP
After issuing \*Lcu\*O from the local system, you must press
\*L<Return>\*O and then log in to the remote system.
.PP
After making the connection, \*Lcu\*O runs as two concurrent processes:
the \*Vtransmit process\*O reads data from
standard input and, except for lines beginning with a ~ (tilde), passes
that data to the remote terminal.  The \*Vreceive process\*O
accepts data from the remote system and, except for lines beginning with a
~ (tilde), passes it to standard output.  To control input from the remote
system so the buffer is not overrun, \*Lcu\*O uses an automatic
\*LXON\*O/\*LXOFF\*O protocol.
.gL "XON/XOFF"
.PP
In addition to issuing regular system commands on the remote system, you can
also issue special \*Lcu\*O local commands, which are preceded by
a ~ (tilde).  Use these ~ commands to issue system commands on the
local system and to perform tasks such as transferring files between two
systems.
.SS "Local Tilde Commands"
The transmit process interprets lines beginning with a tilde in the following
ways:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L~.\*O"
Logs you off the remote computer and terminates the remote connection.
Depending on the interconnection hardware, it may be
necessary to use a \*L\&~\&.\*O to terminate the
conversation even if the normal log off sequence was used.
.LI "\*L~!\*O"
Returns you to an interactive shell on the local system.  Toggle between
the local and remote systems using \*L~!\*O (remote to local) and
End-of-File (local to remote).
.LI "\*L~!\*Vcommand\*O"
Executes the command denoted by \*Vcommand\*O
on the local system via \*Lsh -c\*O.
.LI "\*L~$\*Vcommand\*O"
Runs the command denoted by \*Vcommand\*O locally and sends
its output to the remote system for execution.
.LI "\*L~%cd\*Vdirectory\*O"
Changes the directory on the local system to
\*Vdirectory\*O.
.LI "\*L~%take\*O \*Vfrom\*O [\*Vto\*O]"
Transfers files only.
Copies the \*Vfrom\*O file on the remote system to the \*Vto\*O
file on the local system.  If
\*Vto\*O is omitted, the remote file is copied to
the local system under the same filename.  As each block of the file is
transferred, consecutive single digits are displayed on the terminal screen.
.LI "\*L~%put\*O \*Vfrom\*O [\*Vto\*O]"
Transfers files only.
Copies the \*Vfrom\*O file on the local system to the \*Vto\*O
file on the remote system.  If \*Vto\*O is omitted, the local file is
copied to the remote system under the same filename.  As each block of the
file is transferred, consecutive single digits are displayed on the terminal
screen.
There is an artificial slowing of transmission by the
\*Lcu\*O command during \*L~%put\*O operations so that
loss of data is unlikely.
.LI "\*L~~\*Vline\*O"
Sends the string denoted by ~\*Vline\*O
to the remote system.
.LI "\*L~%break\*O"
Transmits a \*LBREAK\*O signal to the remote system.  The \*LBREAK\*O
can also be specified as \*L~%b\*O.
.LI "\*L~%debug\*O"
Toggles the \*L-debug\*O flag on or off; this can also be specified as
\*L~%d\*O.
.LI "\*L~t\*O"
Prints the values of the \*LTERMIO\*O structure variables for your
terminal.  This is useful for debugging.
.LI "\*L~l\*O"
Prints the values of the \*LTERMIO\*O structure variables for the
remote communications line.  This is useful for debugging.
.LI "\*L~%nostop\*O"
Toggles between \*LXON\*O/\*LXOFF\*O
input control protocol and no input control.  This
is useful in case the remote system is one that
does not respond properly to the \*L<Ctrl-s>\*O and \*L<Ctrl-q>\*O
characters.
.LE
.PP
As soon as you enter \*L~!\*O,\*L~%\*O,
\*L~$\*O, \*L~t\*O, or \*L~l\*O, the
system displays the name of the local computer in the a format such as
the following:
.oS
~[\*Vsystem\*C]!/%
\*O\c
.oE
.PP
You then enter the command to be executed on the local computer.
.SS "Additional Information"
.ML
.LI
The receive process normally copies data from the remote system to the local
system's standard output.  Internally, the program accomplishes this by
initiating an output diversion to a file when a line from the remote system
begins with \*L~>\*O.
.IP
Data from the remote system is diverted to \*Vfile\*O on the local
system. The trailing \*L~>\*O marks the end of the diversion.
.LI
The use of \*L~%put\*O requires \*Lstty\*O and \*Lcat\*O on
the remote system.  It also requires that the current Erase and Kill characters
on the remote system be identical to these current control characters on the
local system.  Backslashes are inserted at appropriate places.
.LI
The use of \*L~%take\*O requires \*Lecho\*O and
\*Lcat\*O on the remote system.  Also, \*Lstty tabs\*O
mode should be set on the remote system if tabs are to be copied without
expansion to spaces.
.LI
The \*Lcu\*O command can be used to connect multiple systems, and
commands can then be executed on any of the connected systems.  For example,
issue \*Lcu\*O on system X to connect to system Y, and then issue
\*Lcu\*O on system Y to connect to system Z.  System X is then the local
computer, and systems Y and Z are remote computers.
.IP
You can execute
commands on system Z by logging in and issuing the command.  Commands can be
executed on system X by prefixing the command with a single tilde
(~\*Vcommand\*O), and on system Y by prefixing the command with two
tildes (~~\*Vcommand\*O).  In general, one tilde causes the
specified command to be executed on the original local computer, and two tildes
cause the command to be executed on the next system on which \*Lcu\*O was
issued.
.IP
For example, once the multiple systems are connected, you can execute the
\*Luname\*O command with the \*L-n\*O flag (to display the node name)
on Z, X, and Y as follows:
.iS
\*C$\*L uname -n
.iE
.oS
Z
\*O
.oE
.iS
\*C$\*L ~!uname -n
.iE
.oS
X
\*O
.oE
.iS
\*C$\*O ~~!uname -n
.iE
.oS
Y
\*O\c
.oE
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL 3m
.LI
To connect to a remote system using a system name, enter:
.iS
cu venus
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
In this example, you are connected to the remote system
\*Lvenus\*O, which is listed in the file
\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O.
.LI
To dial a remote system whose telephone number is 1-201-555-1212,
where dialing 9 is required to get an outside dial tone and the
baud rate is 1200, enter:
.iS
cu -s 1200 9=12015551212
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
If the speed is not specified, \*LAny\*O is the default value.
.LI
To log in to a system connected by a hardwired asynchronous
line, enter:
.iS
cu -l /dev/tty2
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To dial a remote system with a specified line and a specific speed, enter:
.iS
cu -s 1200  -l tty3
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To dial a remote system using a specific line associated with a
modem, enter:
.iS
cu -l cul4  9=12015551212
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To open a virtual terminal on the local system after
logging in to the remote system, enter:
.iS
~!open sh
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To display the contents of a file after logging in to the
remote system, enter:
.iS
~!more /usr/msg/memos/file10
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The contents of \*Lfile10\*O in the directory \*L/usr/msg/memos\*O on
the local system are displayed.
.LI
To copy a file from the local system to the remote system (after logging in
to the remote system) without changing the filename, enter:
.iS
~%put /u/judith/file
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The file \*L/u/judith/file\*O is copied from the local system to the
remote system without changing the name of the file.
.LI
To copy a file from the local system to the remote system (after logging in
to the remote system) and change the filename, enter:
.iS
~%put /u/judith/file /u/judith/tmpfile
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The file \*L/u/judith/file\*O is copied from the local to the remote
system and renamed \*L/u/judith/tmpfile\*O.
.LI
To copy a file from the remote system to the local system (after logging in
to the remote system) without changing the name of the file, enter:
.iS
~%take /u/jeanne/test1
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The file \*L/u/jeanne/test1\*O is copied from the remote to the local
system.
.LI
To copy a file from the remote system to the local system (after logging in
to the remote system) and change the filename, enter:
.iS
~%take /u/jeanne/test1 /u/jeanne/tmptest
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The file \*L/u/jeanne/test1\*O is copied from the remote to the local
system and renamed \*L/u/jeanne/tmptest\*O.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 14m
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/locks/LCK..\*Vtty_number\*O"
.\"End Digital correction.
Prevents multiple use of device.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O"
Information about available devices.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Dialcodes\*O"
Dialing code abbreviations.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Dialers\*O"
Initial handshaking on a link.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Permissions\*O"
Access permission codes.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O"
Accessible remote systems.
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
.AL 3m
.LI
After executing \*Lcu\*O, you must log in to the remote system
and press \*L<Return>\*O.
.LI
The \*Lcu\*O command does not do integrity checking on data it
transfers.
.LI
Data fields with special \*Lcu\*O characters may not be transmitted
properly.
.LI
Depending on the interconnection hardware, it may be necessary to use
a \*L~.\*O (tilde) to terminate the conversation, even if
the normal logout sequence was used.
.LI
There is an artificial slowing of transmission by \*Lcu\*O during
the \*L~%put\*O operation so that loss of data is unlikely.
.LE
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
The exit code is 0 for normal exit, otherwise, -1.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcat\*O(1), \*Lct\*O(1), \*Lecho\*O(1),
\*Lrmail\*O(1), \*Lstty\*O(1), \*Ltip\*O(1), \*Luname\*O(1),
\*Luucico\*O(8), \*Luucleanup\*O(8),
\*Luucp\*O(1), \*Luuencode\*O(1), \*Luudecode\*O(1),
\*Luulog\*O(1), \*Luuname\*O(1), \*Luupick\*O(1), \*Luusched\*O(8),
\*Luusend\*O(1), \*Luustat\*O(1), \*Luuto\*O(1), \*Luux\*O(1)
.\" , \*Luuxqt\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
