.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"

.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cut.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/03 13:17:17 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH cut 1
.SH NAME
\*Lcut\*O \- Displays selected parts from each line of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lcut\*O
\*L\(hyb\ \*Vlist\*O
\*O[\*L\(hyn\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O\ \&...]
.PP
\*Lcut\*O
\*L\(hyc\ \*Vlist\*O
\*O[\*Vfile\*O\ \&...]
.PP
\*Lcut\*O
\*L\(hyf\ \*Vlist\*O
\*O[\*L\(hyd\ \*Vcharacter\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hys\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O\ \&...]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lcut\*O command locates the specified fields in each line of the
specified file and writes the characters in them to standard output.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-b \*Vlist\*O"
Cuts based on a list of bytes.  Each selected byte is output, unless
you also specify the \*L-n\*O flag.  For example, if you specify
\*L-b 1-72\*O, \*Lcut\*O writes out the first 72 bytes in
each line of the file.
.LI "\*L-c \*Vlist\*O"
Cuts based on a list of characters.
.LI "\*L-d \*Vcharacter\*O"
Uses the specified character as the field delimiter (separator)
when you specify the \*L-f\*O flag.  You must quote characters with
special meaning to the shell, such as the space character.
Any character can be used as \*Vcharacter\*O.
The default field delimiter is a tab character.
.LI "\*L-f \*Vlist\*O"
Specifies a list of fields assumed to be separated in the file by a
field delimiter character, specified by the \*L-d\*O flag or the tab character
by default.  For example, if you specify
\*L-f 1,7\*O, \*Lcut\*O writes out only the first and seventh
fields of each line.  If a line contains no field delimiters,
\*Lcut\*O passes them through intact (useful for table
subheadings), unless you specify the \*L-s\*O flag.
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Does not split characters.  When specified with the \*L-b\*O flag,
each element in \*Vlist\*O of the form \*Vlow\*L-\*Vhigh\*O
(hyphen-separated numbers) is modified.
.IP
If the byte selected by \*Vlow\*O is not the first byte of a
character, \*Vlow\*O is decremented to select the first byte of the
character originally selected by \*Vlow\*O.
.IP
If the byte selected by \*Vhigh\*O is not the last byte of a
character, \*Vhigh\*O is decremented to select the last byte of the
character prior to the character originally selected by \*Vhigh\*O, or
0 (zero) if there is no prior character.
.IP
If the resulting range element has \*Vhigh\*O equal to 0 (zero) or
\*Vlow\*O greater than \*Vhigh\*O, the list element is dropped from
\*Vlist\*O for that input line without causing an error.
.IP
Each element in \*Vlist\*O of the form \*Vlow\*L-\*O is treated as
previously described with \*Vhigh\*O set to the number of bytes in the
current line, not including the terminating newline character.  Each
element in \*Vlist\*O of the form \*L-\*Vhigh\*O is treated as
previously described with \*Vlow\*O set to 1.  Each element in
\*Vlist\*O of the form \*Vnumber\*O (a single number) is treated as
previously described with \*Vlow\*O set to \*Vnumber\*O and \*Vhigh\*O set
to \*Vnumber\*O.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Suppresses lines that do not contain delimiter characters
(use only with the \*L-f\*O flag).  Unless you include this flag,
lines with no delimiters are passed through.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "cut command"
.iX "displaying" "selected file fields and characters"
.iX "files" "displaying selected fields and characters"
.iX "files" "selecting fields and characters"
.PP
If you do not specify a file or you specify
a \*L-\*O (dash), \*Lcut\*O reads standard input.
.PP
You must specify the \*L-b\*O flag (to select bytes), the
\*L-c\*O flag (to select characters) or the \*L-f\*O flag (to select fields).
The \*Vlist\*O argument (see the \*L-b\*O, \*L-c\*O, and \*L-f\*O
flags) must be a space-separated or comma-separated list of positive
numbers and ranges.  Ranges can be in three forms:
.ML
.LI
Two positive numbers separated by a \*L-\*O (dash), as in the form
\*Vlow\*L-\*Vhigh\*O, which represents all fields from the first
number to the second number.
.LI
A positive number preceded by a \*L-\*O (dash), as in the form
\*L-\*Vhigh\*O, which represents all fields from field number 1 to
that number.
.LI
A positive number followed by a \*L-\*O (dash), as in the form
\*Vlow\*L-\*O, which represents that number to the last field,
inclusive.
.LE
.PP
The elements in \*Vlist\*O can be repeated, can overlap, and can be
specified in any order.
.PP
Some sample \*Vlist\*O specifications are as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L1,4,7\*O or \*L1 4 7\*O"
First, fourth, and seventh bytes or fields.
.LI "\*L1-3,8\*O"
First through third and eighth bytes or fields.
.LI "\*L-5,10\*O"
First through fifth and tenth bytes or fields.
.LI "\*L3-\*O"
Third through last bytes or fields.
.LE
.PP
The fields specified by \*Vlist\*O can be a fixed number of
byte positions, or the length can vary from line to
line and be marked with a field delimiter character, such as
a tab character.
.PP
You can also use the \*Lgrep\*O command to make horizontal
cuts through a file and the \*Lpaste\*O command to put the files
back together.  To change the order of columns in a file,
use \*Lcut\*O and \*Lpaste\*O.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To display several fields of each line of a file, enter:
.iS
cut -f 1,5 -d : /etc/passwd
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This displays the login name and full username fields of the system
password file.  These are the first and fifth fields (\*L-f 1,5\*O)
separated by colons (\*L-d :\*O).
.PP
So, if the \*L/etc/passwd\*O file looks like this:
.oS
su:UHuj9Pgdvz0J":0:0:User with special privileges:/:
daemon:*:1:1::/etc:
bin:*:2:2::/usr/bin:
sys:*:3:3::/usr/src:
adm:*:4:4:System Administrator:/usr/adm:
pierre:*:200:200:Pierre Harper:/u/pierre:
joan:*:202:200:Joan Brown:/u/joan:
\*O\c
.oE
.PP
Then, \*Lcut -f 1,5 -d : /etc/passwd\*O produces this output:
.oS
su:User with special privileges
daemon:
bin:
sys:
adm:System Administrator
pierre:Pierre Harper
joan:Joan Brown
\*O\c
.oE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lgrep\*O(1)/\*Legrep\*O(1)/\*Lfgrep\*O(1), \*Ljoin\*O(1),
\*Lpaste\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
