.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: cxref.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 18:49:23 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH cxref 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lcxref\*O \- Creates a C program cross-reference listing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*Lcxref\*O
\*O[\*L-c\*O]
\*O[\*L-D\*Vname\*O][\*V=definition\*O]
\*O[\*L-I\*Vdirectory\*O]
\*O[\*L-U\*Vname\*O]
\*O[\*L-Nd\*Vnumber\*O]
\*O[\*L-Nl\*Vnumber\*O]
.nL
\*O[\*L-Nn\*Vnumber\*O]
\*O[\*L-Nt\*Vnumber\*O]
\*O[\*L-o\*O
\*Vfile\*O]
\*O[\*L-s\*O]
\*O[\*L-w\*Vnumber\*O |
\*L-t\*O]
\*Vfile\*O
\&...
.in -.5i
.sE
.PP
The \*Lcxref\*O command analyzes C program files and
creates a cross-reference table, using a version of the \*Lcpp\*O
macro preprocessor to include \*L#define\*O directives in its symbol table.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Displays a combined listing of the cross-references
in all input files.
.LI "\*L-D\*Vname\*O[=\*Vdefinition\*O]"
\*ODefines \*Vname\*O
as in a \*L#define\*O directive.  The default definition is 1.
.LI "\*L-I\*Vdirectory"
\*OLooks first in \*Vdirectory\*O, then looks
in the directories on the standard list for \*L#include\*O files with names
that do not begin with a / (slash).
.LI "\*L-U\*Vname\*O"
Removes any initial definition of \*Vname\*O.
.LI "\*L-Nd\*Vnumber"
\*OChanges the dimension table size
to \*Vnumber\*O.  The default is 2000.
.LI "\*L-Nl\*Vnumber"
\*OChanges the number of type nodes
to \*Vnumber\*O.  The default is 8000.
.LI "\*L-Nn\*Vnumber"
\*OChanges the symbol table size to \*Vnumber\*O.  The
default is 1500.
.LI "\*L-Nt\*Vnumber\*O"
\*OChanges the number of tree
nodes to \*Vnumber\*O.  The default is 1000.
.LI "\*L-o\*O \*Vfile\*O"
Directs the output to the specified \*Vfile\*O.
.LI "\*L-s"
\*ODoes not display the input filenames.
.LI "\*L-t"
\*OMakes the listing 80 bytes wide.
.LI "\*L-w\*O[\*Vnumber\*O]"
\*OMakes the listing \*Vnumber\*O
columns wide, where \*Vnumber\*O is a decimal integer greater than
or equal to 51. If you do not specify\*V number\*O or if \*Vnumber\*O
is less than 51, the listing will be 80 bytes wide.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "cxref command"
.iX "cross-reference listing" "C language program"
.iX "C language" "cross-reference listing"
.iX "creating" "C language program cross-reference listing"
The \*Lcxref\*O command writes to standard
output a listing of all symbols in each file
processed, either separately or in combination (see the \*L-c\*O flag).
.PP
Function prototypes are handled
in a special way: for an \*Vold-style\*O
function declaration, the function prototype name is listed, but the
optional prototype identifiers are not. The formal parameters in a
function definition are always listed, whether or not the prototype
is an old-style function definition.  When a reference to a symbol
is that symbol's declaration, an * (asterisk) precedes it.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To provide a combined cross-reference listing of \*Lstdin1.c\*O and
\*Lstdin2.c\*O, making the output 80 bytes wide, enter:
.iS
cxref -c -t stdin1.c stdin2.c > output
\*O\c
.iE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/ccs/lib/xpass\*O"
Special version of C preprocessor.
.LE
.\" .SH RELATED INFORMATION
.\" .PP 
.\" The \*Las\*O, \*Lgcc\*O (\*Lcc\*O), \*Lgdb\*O, and \*Lld\*O
.\" commands may be available on your system, but are not provided with OSF/1.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
