.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: date.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/13 21:31:59 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.TH date 1
.SH NAME
\*Ldate\*O \- Displays or sets the date
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\" 
.SS Without Superuser Authority
.sS
\*Ldate\*O
\*O[\*L\-u\*O]
\*O[\*L\(pl\*Vfield_descriptor\*O
\&...]
.sE
.SS With Superuser Authority
.\"
.sS
\*Ldate\*O
\*O[\*L\-nu\*O]
\*O[\*VMMddhhmm\*L\&.\*Vssyy\*O
|
\*Valternate_date_format\*O]
\*O[\*L\(pl\*Vfield_descriptor\*O
\&...]
.sE
.PP
The \*Ldate\*O command writes the current date and time to standard output.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "date command"
.iX "setting" "date"
.iX "displaying" "date"
.PP
The \*Ldate\*O command writes the current date and time to standard output
if called with no flags or with a flag list that begins with a \*L\(pl\*O
(plus sign).
Only a user operating with
superuser authority can change the date and time.
.gL "superuser authority"
The \*LLC_TIME\*O variable, if it is defined, controls
the ordering of the day and month numbers in the date specifications.
The default order is \*VMMddhhmm\*L.\*Vssyy\*O where:
.ML
.LI
\*VMM\*O is the month number (01=January).
.LI
\*Vdd\*O is the number of the day in the month.
.LI
\*Vhh\*O is the hour in the day (using a 24-hour clock).
.LI
\*Vmm\*O is the minute number.
.LI
\*Vss\*O is the number of seconds.
.LI
\*Vyy\*O is the last two numbers of the year.
.LE
.PP
The alternative ordering is either
\*VddMMhhmm\*L.\*Vssyy\*O,
\*VyyMMddhhmm.ss\*O, or \*VyyddMMhhmm.ss\*O.
If format \*VyyMM\*O\&.\&.\&.
is specified, the value of \*Vyy\*O must be \*L88\*O to \*L99\*O.
.PP
The current month, day, hour, and year are default values.  The
system operates in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC).
.PP
If you follow \*Ldate\*O with a \*L\(pl\*O (plus sign) and a field descriptor,
you can control the output of the command.  You must precede each field
descriptor with a \*L%\*O (percent sign).  The system replaces the
field descriptor with the specified value.  Enter a literal \*L%\*O
as \*L%\&%\&\*O.  The \*Ldate\*O command copies any other characters to
standard output without change. The \*Ldate\*O command always ends the 
string with a newline character.  Output fields are fixed size (zero padded 
if necessary).
.PP
Do not change the date when the system is in any run mode other
than single-user mode.
.PP
The date command prints out a usage message on any unrecognized flags or input.
.SS "Field Descriptors"
.\"
.VL 4m
.LI "\*La\*O"
Displays the locale's abbreviated weekday name
(\*CSun\*O to \*CSat\*O or the non-English equivalent).
.LI "\*LA\*O"
Displays the locale's full weekday name.
.LI "\*Lb\*O"
Displays the locale's abbreviated month name.
.LI "\*LB\*O"
Displays the locale's full month name.
.LI "\*Lc\*O"
Displays the locale's appropriate time and date representation.
.LI "\*LC\*O"
Displays the locale's century (the year divided by 100 and truncated
to an integer) as a decimal number (\*C00\*O to \*C99\*O).
.LI "\*Ld\*O"
Displays the day of month as a decimal number (\*C01\*O to \*C31\*O).
.LI "\*LD\*O"
Displays the date in the format \*Vmm/dd/yy\*O
(the default), or as specified
by the \*LLC_TIME\*O environment variable, if defined.
.LI "\*Le\*O"
Displays the day of the month as a decimal number (\*C1\*O to \*C31\*O
in a 2-digit field with leading space fill).
.LI "\*Lh\*O"
A synonym for \*L%b\*O.
.LI "\*LH\*O"
Displays the hour as a decimal number (\*C00\*O to \*C23\*O).
.LI "\*LI\*O"
Displays the hour as a decimal number (\*C01\*O to \*C12\*O).
.LI "\*Lj\*O"
Displays the day of year as a decimal number (\*C001\*O to \*C366\*O).
.LI "\*Lm\*O"
Displays the month of year as a decimal number (\*C01\*O to \*C12\*O).
.LI "\*LM\*O"
Displays the minute as a decimal number (\*C00\*O to \*C59\*O).
.LI "\*Ln\*O"
Inserts a newline character.
.LI "\*Lp\*O"
Displays the locale's equivalent of either \*CAM\*O or \*CPM\*O.
.LI "\*Lr\*O"
Displays the time (12-hour clock) using AM/PM notation
(or the non-English equivalent) in the format \*Vhh:mm:ss\*O \*CAM\*O
or \*Vhh:mm:ss\*O \*CPM\*O.
.LI "\*LS\*O"
Displays the second as a decimal number (\*C00\*O to \*C61\*O).
.LI "\*Lt\*O"
Inserts a tab character.
.LI "\*LT\*O"
Displays the time in 24-hour clock format as \*Vhh:mm:ss\*O
(the default), or as
specified by the \*LLC_TIME\*O environment variable, if defined.
.LI "\*LU\*O"
Displays the week number of the year (Sunday is the first day
of the week) as a decimal number (\*C00\*O to \*C53\*O).
.LI "\*Lw\*O"
Displays the day of the week as a decimal number (Sunday = \*C0\*O).
.LI "\*LW\*O"
Displays the week number of the year (Monday is the first day
of the week) as a decimal number (\*C00\*O to \*C53\*O).
.LI "\*Lx\*O"
Displays the locale's appropriate date representation.
.LI "\*LX\*O"
Displays the locale's appropriate time representation.
.LI "\*Ly\*O"
Displays the last two numbers of the year as a decimal
number (\*C00\*O to \*C99\*O).
.LI "\*LY\*O"
Displays the full year as a decimal number.
.LI "\*LZ\*O"
Displays the time zone name, or no characters if the time zone
cannot be determined.
.LI "\*L%\&%\&\*O"
Inserts a \*L%\*O character.
.LE
.SH FLAGS
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-n\*O"
Does not set the time globally on all machines in a local
area network that have their clocks synchronized (superuser only).
.LI "\*L\-u\*O"
Performs operations as if the \*LTZ\*O environment variable was set
to the string \*LGMT0\*O.  Otherwise, \*Ldate\*O uses the
time zone indicated by the \*LTZ\*O environment variable or the system
default if that variable is not set.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.AL
.LI
To display current date and time, enter:
.iS
date
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
Depending on your current locale, the output might look like one
of the following:
.oS
Thu Apr 12  13:21:30 EDT  1992
jeu 12 avr  17:21:30 CUT  1992
tor 12 apr  17:21:30 CUT  1992
\*O\c
.oE
.IP
The first output line is for an American English locale, the second is
for a French locale, and the third is for a Danish locale.
.LI
To set the date and time, enter:
.iS
date  02171425.45
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This sets the date and time to 14:25:45 (45 seconds after 2:25 p.m.)
February 17 of the current year.
.LI
To display the date and time in a specified format, enter:
.iS
date  \(pl"%r  %d  %h  %y  (%a)"
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This displays the date (assume current year is 1993)
shown in Example 2 as:
.oS
02:25:03  PM  17  Feb  93  (Fri)
\*O\c
.oE
.LE
.PP
Do not change the date while the system is running with more than one user.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:  \*Lgetclock\*O(3), \*Lgettimeofday\*O(2),
\*Lsetclock\*O(3).
.PP
.\" "Using Internationalization Features" in the 
\*ECommand and Shell User's Guide\*O.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
