.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dd.1,v $ $Revision: 3.3.7.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/06 21:00:11 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH dd 1
.SH NAME
\*Ldd\*O \- Converts and copies a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ldd\*O
\*O[\*Voption\*L=\*Vvalue\*O
\&.\&.\&.]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "dd command"
.iX "translating" "files"
.iX "converting" "files"
.iX "copying" "file"
.iX "files" "translating"
.iX "files" "converting"
.iX "files" "copying"
.PP
The \*Ldd\*O command reads the specified input file or
standard input, does the specified conversions, and copies it to the
specified output file or standard output.  The input and output
block size may be specified to take advantage of raw physical I/O.
The terms \*Vblock\*O and \*Vrecord\*O refer to the quantity
.gL "block"
.gL "record"
of data read or written by \*Ldd\*O in one operation and are not
necessarily the same size as a disk block.
.PP
Where sizes are specified, a number of bytes is expected.  A number
may end with \*Lw\*O, \*Lb\*O, or \*Lk\*O to specify
multiplication by 2, 512, or 1024, respectively; a pair of numbers
can be separated by an \*Lx\*O to indicate a product.
.PP
The \*Lcbs\*O specification is used if one of the following
conversions is specified:  \*Lascii\*O, \*Lunblock\*O,
\*Lebcdic\*O, \*Libm\*O, or \*Lblock\*O.  For the first two conversions,
\*Ldd\*O places characters in a conversion buffer of size
\*Lcbs\*O, converts these characters to ASCII, trims trailing
.gL "ASCII"
.gL "EBCDIC"
spaces, and adds newline characters before sending data to the specified
output.  For the latter three cases, \*Ldd\*O places ASCII characters in the
conversion buffer, converts these characters to EBCDIC, and adds trailing
spaces to create an output record of size \*Lcbs\*O.
.PP
After it finishes, \*Ldd\*O reports the number of whole and
partial input and output blocks.
.SS Options
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lif=\*Vinput_file\*O"
Specifies the input filename; standard input is the default.
.LI "\*Lof=\*Voutput_file\*O"
Specifies the output filename; standard output is the default.
.LI "\*Libs=\*Vnumber\*O"
Specifies the input block size in bytes; the default is 512.
.LI "\*Lobs=\*Vnumber\*O"
Specifies the output block size in bytes; the default is 512.
.LI "\*Lbs=\*Vnumber\*O"
Specifies both the input and output block size, superseding \*Libs\*O and
\*Lobs\*O.
.LI "\*Lcbs=\*Vnumber\*O"
Specifies the conversion buffer size.
.LI "\*Lskip=\*Vnumber\*O"
Skips \*Vnumber\*O input records before starting copy.
.LI "\*Lfiles=\*Vnumber\*O"
Copies \*Vnumber\*O input files before terminating (makes
sense only where input is a magnetic tape or similar device).
.LI "\*Lseek=\*Vnumber\*O"
Seeks to the \*Vnumber\*Oth record from the beginning of
output file before copying.
.LI "\*Lcount=\*Vnumber\*O"
Copies only \*Vnumber\*O input records.
.LI "\*Lconv=\*Vspecification\*O[,\*Vspecification\*O \&.\&.\&.]"
Specifies one or more of the following conversions:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lascii\*O"
Converts EBCDIC to ASCII.
.LI "\*Lblock\*O"
Converts variable-length records to fixed-length.
.LI "\*Lebcdic\*O"
Converts ASCII to EBCDIC.
.LI "\*Libm\*O"
Performs a slightly different map of ASCII to EBCDIC.
.LI "\*Lunblock\*O"
Converts fixed-length records to variable-length.
.LI "\*Llcase\*O"
Makes all alphabetic characters lowercase.
.LI "\*Lucase\*O"
Makes all alphabetic characters uppercase.
.LI "\*Lswab\*O"
Swaps every pair of bytes.
.LI "\*Lnoerror\*O"
Does not stop processing on an error.
.LI "\*Lsync\*O"
Pads every input record to \*Libs\*O.
.LI "\*Lsparse\*O"
Creates a sparse output file.
.LI "\*L\&.\&.\&. , \&.\&.\&.\*O"
Allows several comma-separated conversions.
.LE
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
.AL
.LI
The ASCII/EBCDIC conversion tables are taken from the 256 character standard in
the CACM November, 1968.
.gL "CACM"
There is no universal standard for EBCDIC/ASCII translation.
.LI
One must specify \*Lconv=noerror,sync\*O when
copying raw disks with bad sectors to ensure \*Ldd\*O stays synchronized.
.LI
Certain combinations of arguments to
\*Lconv=\*O
are permitted.
However, the
\*Lblock\*O
or
\*Lunblock\*O
option cannot be combined with
\*Lascii\*O,
\*Lebcdic\*O,
or
\*Libm\*O.
Invalid combinations
\*Vsilently ignore\*O
all but the last mutually exclusive keyword.
.LI
If you need to use \*Ldd\*O to copy to a streaming tape
and the data is an odd length (not a multiple of 512 bytes), you must use
the \*Lconv=sync\*O flag to fill the last record.  Streaming tape
devices permit only multiples of 512 bytes.
.LI
If option \*Lbs\*O is used (or \*Lbs\*O is equal to \*Lobs\*O) and no
conversion is specified, then \*Ldd\*O is particularly efficient since less
memory copies are done.
.LI
The \*Ldd\*O command does not support floppy disk multi-volumes, but it
does support tape multi-volumes.  This means that when
ENOSPC is returned while reading or writing a tape, \*Ldd\*O will prompt
the user for a new tape.
.IP
In order to make use of tape multi-volumes, the \*Vfiles\*O option must be
used.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To read an EBCDIC tape blocked ten 80-byte EBCDIC card images per record
into the ASCII file \*Lx\*O, enter:
.iS
dd if=/dev/rmt0 of=x ibs=800 cbs=80 conv=ascii,lcase
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
Note the use of raw magnetic tape.  \*Ldd\*O is especially suited to I/O
on the raw physical devices because it allows reading and writing in
arbitrary record sizes.
.LI
To convert an ASCII text file to EBCDIC, enter:
.iS
dd if=text.ascii of=text.ebcdic conv=ebcdic
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This converts \*Ltext.ascii\*O to EBCDIC representation,
storing this in \*Ltext.ebcdic\*O.
.LE
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
This message specifies the number of full and partial records both read
and written:
.oS
\*Vf\*C+\*Vp\*O \*Crecords in\*O
\*Vf\*C+\*Vp\*O \*Crecords out\*O
\*O
.oE
.PP
The number of full records read or written (\*Vf\*O) refers to the
blocks of data of size \*Libs\*O or \*Lobs\*O.  The number
of partial records read or written (\*Vp\*O) refers to the blocks
of data smaller than \*Libs\*O or \*Lobs\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcp\*O(1), \*Lcpio\*O(1), \*Ltar\*O(1), \*Ltr\*O(1),
\*Ltrbsd\*O(1).
.PP
.\" "Using Internationalization Features" in the 
\*ECommand and Shell User's Guide\*O.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
