.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ddifanls.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/20 22:13:35 $
.\" 
.TH ddifanls 1
.SH Name
ddifanls \- convert DDIF formatted files to CDA analysis formatted files
.SH Syntax
.B ddifanls
[
.B \-m
.I message_log
[
.B \-O
.I optionfile
[
.B \-o
.I outputfile
 [
.B \-p
.I options_line
\&...
[
.B \-d
.I extension
[
.I inputfile
[
.I outputfile
[
.I logfile
] ]
.SH Description
.NX R "ddifanls command"
The
.PN ddifanls
command reads a DDIF formatted file from
.I inputfile
and writes a CDA analysis file to
.IR outputfile .
To convert from \f2file.ddif\fP to \f2file.cda_analysis\fP, type:
.IP
.B ddifanls file.ddif file.cda_analysis
.PP
If you do not supply an input file, or if you use a minus sign
.Pn ( \- )
as an argument,
.PN ddifanls
reads the DDIF file from the standard input file.  If you do not supply
an output file, or if you use a minus sign
.Pn ( \- )
as an argument,
.PN ddifanls
writes the CDA analysis file to standard output.  If you specify a log
file,
.PN ddifanls
redirects standard error to the log file.  The
.PN ddifanls
conversion is also invoked by the
.PN cdoc
command when you use that command and specify the option
.PN "\-d analysis"
 or
.PN "\-d anls" .
.PP
If the DDIF input file is a newer version of the DDIF grammar than that
understood by the converter, data represented by the new grammar
elements is lost.
.PP
A document syntax error in the DDIF input file causes a fatal input
processing error.  The conversion stops and no further input processing
occurs.
.PP
Application end users use an analysis output file to determine whether
an input file contains references of links to multiple
.ie t ``subfiles.''
.el "subfiles."
You must copy each subfile separately across a network because subfiles
are not automatically included when an input file is transferred across
a network, unless the input file is transferred using DOTS.  Search the
analysis output file for all occurrences of the string
.ie t ``ERF_LABEL,''
.el "ERF_LABEL,"
followed by the subfile name in double quotes
.Pn ( """" ),
to determine whether a document has links to other files.
.SH Options
.TP 5
.B \-m \f2message_log\fP
Enables enhanced messaging and logs all messages to
.I message_log
or, if `\-' is specified, to standard error in place of the
.IR message_log .
If you do not specify this option, only serious errors are reported.
.TP
.B \-O \f2optionfile\fP
Specifies the name of the options file containing options for this
converter.
.IP "" 5
The options file has a default file type of
.PN \&.cda_options .
Each line of the options file specifies a format name that can
optionally be followed by
.I _input
or
.I _output
to restrict the option to either an input or output converter.  The
second word is a valid option preceded by one or more spaces, tabs, or
a slash
.Pn ( / )
and can contain uppercase and lowercase letters, numbers, dollar
signs, and underlines.  The case of letters is not significant.  If an
option requires a value, then spaces, tabs, or an equal sign can
separate the option from the value.
.IP "" 5
You can precede any line by spaces and tabs.  To terminate a line, use
any character other than those used to specify the format names and
options.  The syntax and interpretation of the text that follows the
format name is specified by the supplier of the front and back end
converters for the specified format.
.IP "" 5
To specify several options for the same input or output format, specify
one option on a line.  If an invalid option for an input or output
format or an invalid value for an option is specified, the option may
be ignored or an error message may be returned.  Each input or output
format that supports processing options specifies any restrictions or
special formats required when specifying options.
.IP "" 5
By default, any messages that occur during processing of the options
file are written to standard error.  For those input and output formats
that support a LOG option, messages can be  directed to a log file or
to a common message log.
.TP
.B \-o \f2outputfile\fP
Specifies the name of the output file.  Included in the command syntax
for compatibility with the
.PN cdoc
command.
.TP
.B \-p \f2options_line\fP
Allows options to be specified on the command line and has the same
effect as specifying an options file for this converter.  You can
specify up to 100 options, each preceded by
.PN \-p .
.TP
.B \-d \f2extension\fP
Allows the specification of a default output file extension for
compatibility with other operating systems.
.SH Converter Processing Options
When using the
.PN ddifanls
converter you can produce an analysis of the CDA in-memory structure in
the form of text output showing the named objects and values stored in
the document.  This is useful for debugging DDIF application programs.
You can specify the following converter options:
.IP INHERITANCE 5
Specifies that the analysis is shown with attribute inheritance
enabled.  Inherited attributes are marked by
.ie t ``[inherited value]''
.el "[inherited value]"
in the output.
.IP TRANSLATE_BYTE_STRINGS 5
Overrides the default.  For data of type BYTE STRING, the Analysis
output does not display the hexadecimal translation if all the
characters in the byte string are printable characters (hex values 20
through 7E).  To override this option, supply the
TRANSLATE_BYTE_STRINGS option.
.IP IMAGE_DATA 5
Overrides the default.  For the special case of byte string data for
item DDIF_IDU_PLANE_DATA (a bitmapped image), the following comment
appears on the display:
.PP
.B "! *** Bit-mapped data not displayed here ***"
.PP
To retain the hexadecimal display, supply the IMAGE_DATA option.
There is no translation into ASCII.
.SH See Also
.MS cdoc 1 ,
.MS ctod 1 ,
.MS dtifanls 1 ,
.MS dtoc 1 ,
.MS cda 4 ,
.MS cda_msg 4 ,
.MS ddif 4 ,
.MS dots 4 ,
.MS dtif 4
.EQ
delim off
.EN
