.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ddifps.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/12/22 18:54:14 $
.\" 
.TH ddifps 1
.SH Name
ddifps \- convert DDIF formatted files to PostScript(TM) formatted files
.SH Syntax
.B ddifps
[\-m \f2message_log\fP] [\-O \f2optionfile\fP] [\-o \f2outputfile\fP] 
[\-p \f2options_line\fP]... [\-d \f2extension\fP] 
[\f2inputfile\fP [\f2outputfile\fP [\f2logfile\fP]]]
.SH Description
.NXR "ddifps command"
The
.cs
ddifps
command reads a DDIF formatted file from
.I inputfile
and writes a PostScript file to
.I outputfile.
To convert from \f2file.ddif\fP to \f2file.ps\fP, type:
.PP
\f3ddifps file.ddif file.ps.\f1
.PP
If you do not supply an input file, or if you supply a
minus sign (\-) as an
argument,
.cs
ddifps
reads the DDIF file from the standard input file. 
If you do not supply an output file, 
or if a minus sign (\-) is encountered as an argument,
.cs
ddifps
writes the PostScript file to the standard output file.

If you specify a logfile,
.cs
ddifps
redirects \f2standard error\fP to the logfile.
You can also invoke the 
.cs
ddifps
conversion with the
.cs
cdoc
command when you use that
command and specify 
the option \-d \f2ps\fP.

If the DDIF input file is a newer version of the DDIF grammar
than that understood by the converter, data represented by the
new grammar elements is lost.
Any external file references within the DDIF input file are resolved.

A document syntax error in the DDIF input file causes a fatal input
processing error. The conversion stops and no further input processing occurs.
.SH Options
.TP 5
.B \-m \f2message_log\fP
Enables enhanced messaging and logs all messages to \f2message_log\fP or,
if '-' is specified, to \f2standard error\fP in place of the \f2message_log\fP. 
If you do not specify this option, only serious errors are reported.
.TP
.B \-O \f2optionfile\fP
Specifies the name of the options file that contains the options 
you want to select for this converter.
.IP "" 10
The options file has a default file type of .cda_options. Each line of the
options file specifies a format name that can optionally be 
followed by \f2_input\fP or \f2_output\fP to 
restrict the option to either an input or output 
converter. The second word is a valid option preceded by one or more spaces, 
tabs, or a slash (/) and can contain uppercase and lowercase letters, numbers, 
dollar signs, and underlines. The case of letters is not significant. If an 
option requires a value, then spaces, tabs, or an equal sign can separate the
option from the value. 
.IP "" 10
You can precede any line by spaces and tabs.
To terminate a line, use
any character other than those used to specify
the format names and options. The syntax and interpretation of
the text that follows the format name is specified by the supplier of the
front and back end converters for the specified format. 
.IP "" 10
To specify several options for the same input or output format, specify one
option on a line. If an invalid option for an input or output format or an
invalid value for an option is specified, the option may be ignored or an
error message may be returned. Each input or output format that supports
processing options specifies any restrictions or special formats required
when specifying options. 
.IP "" 10
By default, any messages that occur during processing of the options file 
are written to \f2standard error\fP.  For those
input and output formats that support a LOG option, messages can be 
directed to a log file or to a common message log.
.TP
.B \-o \f2outputfile\fP
Specifies the name of the output file that is included in the command syntax
for compatibility with the 
.cs
cdoc 
command.
.TP
.B \-p \f2options_line\fP
Allows options to be specified on the command line and has the same
effect as specifying an options file for this converter. 
You can specify up to 100 options, each preceded by -p.
.TP
.B \-d \f2extension\fP
Allows the specification of a default output file extension for compatibility
with other operating systems. 
.SH Converter Processing Options
.PP
.cs
ddifps
supports the following processing options in an options file or in options
specified on command lines:
.TP 5
o  PAPER_SIZE size
Specifies the size of the paper to be used when formatting the
resulting PostScript output file. Valid values for the size
argument are as follows:
.PP
.RS
.IP Keyword 12
Meaning
.IP A0
841 x 1189 millimeters (33.13 x 46.85 inches)
.IP A1
594 x 841 millimeters (23.40 x 33.13 inches)
.IP A2
420 x 594 millimeters (16.55 x 23.40 inches)
.IP A3
297 x 420 millimeters (11.70 x 16.55 inches)
.IP A4
210 x 297 millimeters (8.27 x 11.70 inches)
.IP A
8.5 x 11 inches (216 x 279 millimeters)
.IP B
11 x 17 inches (279 x 432 millimeters)
.IP C
17 x 22 inches (432 x 559 millimeters)
.IP D
22 x 34 inches (559 x 864 millimeters)
.IP E
34 x 44 inches (864 x 1118 millimeters)
.IP LEDGER
11 x 17 inches (279 x 432 millimeters)
.IP LEGAL
8.5 x 14 inches (216 x 356 millimeters)
.IP LETTER
8.5 x 11 inches (216 x 279 millimeters)
.IP LP
13.7 x 11 inches (348 x 279 millimeters)
.IP VT
8 x 5 inches (203 x 127 millimeters)
.RE
.PP
.IP "" 5
The A paper size (8.5 x 11 inches) is the default.
You can specify the following units of measurement:
\f2in\fP for inches (default), \f2cm\fP for centimeters,
\f2mm\fP for millimeters, \f2po\fP or \f2pt\fP for points.
.TP
o  PAPER_HEIGHT height
Specifies a paper height other than one of the predefined values
provided. The default paper height is 11 inches.
You can specify the following units of measurement:
\f2in\fP for inches (default), \f2cm\fP for centimeters,
\f2mm\fP for millimeters, \f2po\fP or \f2pt\fP for points.
.TP
o  PAPER_WIDTH width
Specifies a paper width other than one of the predefined values
provided. The default paper width is 8.5 inches.
You can specify the following units of measurement:
\f2in\fP for inches (default), \f2cm\fP for centimeters,
\f2mm\fP for millimeters, \f2po\fP or \f2pt\fP for points.
.TP
o  PAPER_TOP_MARGIN top-margin
Specifies the height of the margin provided at the top of the
page. The default value is 0.25 inch.
You can specify the following units of measurement:
\f2in\fP for inches (default), \f2cm\fP for centimeters,
\f2mm\fP for millimeters, \f2po\fP or \f2pt\fP for points.
.TP
o  PAPER_BOTTOM_MARGIN bottom-margin
Specifies the height of the margin provided at the bottom of the
page. The default value is 0.25 inch.
You can specify the following units of measurement:
\f2in\fP for inches (default), \f2cm\fP for centimeters,
\f2mm\fP for millimeters, \f2po\fP or \f2pt\fP for points.
.TP
o  PAPER_LEFT_MARGIN left-margin
Specifies the width of the margin provided on the left-hand
side of the page. The default value is 0.25 inch.
You can specify the following units of measurement:
\f2in\fP for inches (default), \f2cm\fP for centimeters,
\f2mm\fP for millimeters, \f2po\fP or \f2pt\fP for points.
.TP
o  PAPER_RIGHT_MARGIN right-margin
Specifies the width of the margin provided on the right-hand
side of the page. The default value is 0.25 inch.
You can specify the following units of measurement:
\f2in\fP for inches (default), \f2cm\fP for centimeters,
\f2mm\fP for millimeters, \f2po\fP or \f2pt\fP for points.
.TP
o  PAPER_ORIENTATION orientation
Specifies the paper orientation to be used in the PostScript output 
file. 
You can specify the following units of measurement:
\f2in\fP for inches (default), \f2cm\fP for centimeters,
\f2mm\fP for millimeters, \f2po\fP or \f2pt\fP for points.
The valid values for the orientation argument
are:
.PP
.RS
.IP Keyword 12
Meaning
.IP PORTRAIT
The page is oriented so that the larger dimension
is parallel to the vertical axis.
.IP LANDSCAPE
The page is oriented so that the larger dimension
is parallel to the horizontal axis.
.RE
.PP
.IP "" 5
The default is PORTRAIT.
.TP
o  EIGHT_BIT_OUTPUT [ON,OFF]
Specifies whether the converter should use
8-bit output. The default value is ON.
.TP
o  LAYOUT [ON,OFF]
Specifies whether the converter processes
the layout specified in the DDIF document. The default value is
ON.
.TP
o  OUTPUT_BUFFER_SIZE output-buffer-size
Specifies the size of the output buffer. The value you specify
must be within the range 64 to 256. The default value is 132.
.TP
o  PAGE_WRAP [ON,OFF]
Specifies whether the converter performs
page wrapping of any text that would exceed the bottom margin.
The default value is ON.
.TP
o  SOFT_DIRECTIVES [ON,OFF]
Specifies whether the converter processes
soft directives in the DDIF file in order to format output.
(Soft directives specify such formatting commands as new
line, new page, and tab.) If the converter
processes soft directives, the output file will look more like
you intended it to look. The default value is ON.
.TP
o  WORD_WRAP [ON,OFF]
Specifies whether the converter performs
word wrapping of any text that would exceed the right margin.
The default value is ON. If you specify OFF, the 
converter allows text to exceed the right margin.
.SH See Also
cdoc(1), cda(4), cda_msg(4), ddif(4), dvr_msg(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
