.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ddiftext.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/12/22 18:34:07 $
.\" 
.TH ddiftext 1
.SH Name
ddiftext \- convert DDIF formatted files to text formatted files
.SH Syntax
.B ddiftext
[\-m \f2message_log\fP] [\-O \f2optionfile\fP] [\-o \f2outputfile\fP] 
[\-p \f2options_line\fP]... [\-d \f2extension\fP] 
[\f2inputfile\fP [\f2outputfile\fP [\f2logfile\fP]]]
.SH Description
.NXR "ddiftext command"
The
.cs
ddiftext
command reads a DDIF formatted file from
.I inputfile
and writes a text file to
.I outputfile.
To convert from \f2file.ddif\fP to \f2file.text\fP, type:
.PP
\f3ddiftext file.ddif file.text.\f1
.PP
If you do not supply an input file, or if you supply a
minus sign (\-) as an argument,
.cs
ddiftext
reads the DDIF file from the standard input file.
If you do not supply an output file, 
or if you supply a minus sign (\-) as an argument,
.cs
ddiftext
writes the text file to the standard output file.
.PP
You can also invoke the 
.cs
ddiftext
conversion with the
.cs
cdoc(1)
command when you use that command and specify 
the option \-d \f2text\fP.
.PP
If the DDIF input file is a newer version of the DDIF grammar
than that understood by the converter, data represented by the
new grammar elements is lost.
Any external file references within the DDIF input file are 
resolved.
.PP
All Latin1 text in the intermediate representation of the input file
is converted to the text output file. When converting an input file
to a text output file, you should be aware that text output files can
contain only textual content and minimal formatting such as line feeds,
page breaks, and tabs.  The Text back end converter preserves formatting
information to the extent possible. All graphics, images, and text
attributes in the intermediate representation of the input file are
lost when converted to the text output file.
.PP
A document syntax error in the DDIF input file causes a fatal input
processing error. The conversion stops and no further input processing occurs.
.SH Options
.TP 5
.B \-m \f2message_log\fP
Enables enhanced messaging and logs all messages to \f2message_log\fP or,
if '-' is specified, to \f2standard error\fP in place of the \f2message_log\fP. 
If you do not specify this option, only serious errors are reported.
.TP
.B \-O \f2optionfile\fP
Specifies the name of the options file containing options for this
converter.
.IP "" 10
The options file has a default file type of .cda_options. Each line of the
options file specifies a format name that can optionally be 
followed by \f2_input\fP or \f2_output\fP to 
restrict the option to either an input or output 
converter. The second word is a valid option preceded by one or more spaces, 
tabs, or a slash (/) and can contain uppercase and lowercase letters, numbers, 
dollar signs, and underlines. The case of letters is not significant. If an 
option requires a value, then spaces, tabs, or an equal sign can separate the
option from the value. 
.IP "" 10
You can precede any line by spaces and tabs.
To terminate a line, use
any character other than those used to specify
the format names and options. The syntax and interpretation of
the text that follows the format name is specified by the supplier of the
front and back end converters for the specified format. 
.IP "" 10
To specify several options for the same input or output format, specify one
option on a line. If an invalid option for an input or output format or an
invalid value for an option is specified, the option may be ignored or an
error message may be returned. Each input or output format that supports
processing options specifies any restrictions or special formats required
when specifying options. 
.IP "" 10
By default, any messages that occur during processing of the options file 
are written to \f2standard error\fP.  For those
input and output formats that support a LOG option, messages can be 
directed to a log file or to a common message log.
.TP
.B \-o \f2outputfile\fP
Specifies the name of the output file that is included in the command syntax
for compatibility with the 
.cs
cdoc 
command.
.TP
.B \-p \f2options_line\fP
Specifies command line options. This option has the same
effect as specifying an options file for this converter. 
You can specify up to 100 options.
.TP
.B \-d \f2extension\fP
Specifies a default file extension for compatibility
with other operating systems. 
.SH Converter Processing Options
.cs
ddiftext
supports the following processing options in an options file or in options
specified on command lines:
.TP 5
o  ASCII_FALLBACK [ON,OFF]
Causes text output in 7-bit ASCII. The
fallback representation of the characters is described in the ASCII
standard. If this option is not specified, the default is OFF; if this
option is specified without a value, the default is ON.
.TP
o  CONTENT_MESSAGES [ON,OFF]
Causes the converter to put a message in the
output file each time a nontext element is encountered.
If this option is not specified, the
default is OFF; if this option is specified without a value,
the default is ON.
.TP
o  HEIGHT value
Specifies the maximum number of lines per page in your text
output file. If you specify zero, the number of lines per page
will correspond to the height specified in your document. If
you additionally specify OVERRIDE_FORMAT, or if the document
has no inherent page size, the document is formatted to the
height value specified by this option. The default height is 66
lines.
.TP
o  OVERRIDE_FORMAT [ON,OFF]
Causes the converter to ignore the document formatting information
in the document, so that the text is formatted on a single large
paragraph per page. Specify the size of the page by the HEIGHT
and WIDTH processing options. If this option is not specified,
the default is OFF; if this option is specified without a
value, the default is ON.
.TP
o  SOFT_DIRECTIVES [ON,OFF]
Causes the converter to obey the soft directives
contained in the document when creating the text output file.
If this option is not specified, the default is OFF; if this
option is specified without a value, the default is ON.
.TP
o  WIDTH value
Specifies the maximum number of columns of characters per page
in the text output file. If you specify zero, the number of
columns per page will correspond to the width specified in
your document. If you additionally specify OVERRIDE_FORMAT,
or if the document has no inherent page size, the document is
formatted to the value specified by this processing option.
If any lines of text exceed this width value, the additional
columns are truncated. The default width is 80 characters.
.SH See Also
cdoc(1), dtifddif(1), textddif(1), vdoc(1),
cda(4), cda_msg(4), ddif(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
