.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: delta.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/07 16:07:19 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH delta 1
.SH NAME
\*Ldelta\*O \- Saves editing changes in a Source Code Control System (SCCS) file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*Ldelta
\*O[\*L\(hyg\ \*Vlist\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hym\ \*VMRlist\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyn\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyp\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hys\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyr\ \*VSID\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyy\*O][\*Vcomment\*O]
\*Vfile\*O\ \&...\  |\ \*L\(hy\*O
.in -.5i
.sE
.PP
The \*Ldelta\*O command introduces into the named SCCS
.gL "delta"
.gL "Source Code Control System"
.gL "SCCS"
file any changes that
were made to the file version retrieved by an SCCS \*Lget -e\*O command.\*L
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-g\*Vlist\*O"
Specifies a list of SIDs (deltas) that are to be ignored
.gL "SID"
when the \*Lget\*O command creates the g-file.  After you use this
.gL "g-file.gL "g-file"
flag, \*Lget\*O ignores the deltas in this list when it builds the g-file.
.\" this delta if it is one that it should not
.\" include when it builds the g-file.
.LI "\*L-m\*O[\*VMRlist\*O]"
Specifies a Modification Request (MR) number
.gL "Modification Request"
.gL "MR"
as the reason for creating the new delta.
.IP
If the SCCS file has the \*Lv\*O header flag set,
.gL "header flag"
then a MR number must be provided.
If you specify \*L-m\*O, the MRs are taken from \*VMRlist\*O.
.IP
If you do not specify the \*L-m\*O flag,
\*Ldelta\*O reads MRs from the standard input.
If standard input is a tty, \*Ldelta\*O prompts you for
the MRs. \*Ldelta\*O continues to take input until it reads End-of-File.
It always reads MRs before the comments (see the \*L-y\*O
flag).  You can use spaces, tab characters, or both to separate MRs in a
list.
.IP
If the \*Lv\*O header flag has a value, it is interpreted as the
name of a program that validates the MR numbers.  If \*Ldelta\*O
returns a nonzero exit value from the MR validation program,
\*Ldelta\*O assumes some of the MR numbers were invalid and stops running.
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Retains the g-file, which is normally removed at completion of
\*Ldelta\*O processing.
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Writes to standard output (in the format of the \*Lsccsdiff\*O
command) the SCCS file differences before and after the delta is applied.
(See the \*Lsccsdiff\*O command for more information.)
.LI "\*L-r\*VSID\*O"
Specifies which delta is to be made to the SCCS file.  You must use
this flag only if two or more outstanding \*Lget -e\*O commands
were done on the same SCCS file by the same person.  The SID
can be either the SID specified on the \*Lget\*O command line or
the SID to be made as reported by the \*Lget\*O command.
An error results if
the specified SID cannot be uniquely identified, or if a SID must be
specified, but it is not.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Suppresses the information normally written to standard output on
normal completion of the \*Ldelta\*O command.
.LI "\*L-y\*O[\*Vcomment\*O]"
Specifies text used to describe the reason for making the delta.  A
null string is considered a valid \*Vcomment\*O.  If your comment
line includes special characters or spaces, the line must be enclosed in
single or double quotes.
.IP
If you do not specify \*L-y\*O, \*Ldelta\*O reads comments
from standard input until it reads a blank line or End-of-File.
If input is from the keyboard, \*Ldelta\*O prompts for the comments.
If the last character of a line is a \e (backslash), it is ignored.
Comments must be no longer than 512 characters.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "delta command"
.iX "files" "SCCS"
.iX "SCCS" "deltas"
.iX "creating" "SCCS file deltas"
.iX "Modification Request number"
.iX "MR"
.PP
.iX "get command"
The \*Ldelta\*O command reads the g-files that
correspond to the specified files (see the \*Lget\*O command)
and creates a new delta.
.PP
If you specify a directory in place of \*Vfile\*O,
\*Ldelta\*O performs the requested actions on all SCCS files within
that directory (that is, on all files with the \*Ls\&.\*O
prefix).  If you specify a \*L-\*O (dash) in place of
\*Vfile\*O, \*Ldelta\*O reads standard input and interprets
each line as the name of an SCCS file.  When \*Ldelta\*O reads
standard input, you must supply the \*L-y\*O flag.  You must also
supply the \*L-m\*O flag if the \*Lv\*O header flag is set.
(For more information on header flags, see the \*Ladmin\*O(1)
command.)  \*Ldelta\*O reads standard
input until it reaches End-of-File.
.PP
Avoid a \*Lget\*O of many SCCS files followed by a \*Ldelta\*O of
those files when the \*Lget\*O generates a large
amount of data.  Instead, alternate the use of \*Lget\*O and \*Ldelta\*O.
.PP
To use the \*Ldelta\*O command, do the following:
.AL 3m
.LI
Use \*Lget -e\*O to get an editable version of the file.
.LI
Edit that file.
.LI
Use \*Ldelta\*O to create a new version of the SCCS file.
.LE
.PP
The \*Ldelta\*O command prompts you for comments.  The comments
are for that particular delta and appear in the SCCS file header.
The comments are not retrieved when you \*Lget\*O
the delta and do not appear in the text of a retrieved file.
Use comments to keep track of why a delta was created.
.PP
To see the comments, use an editor to look at the SCCS file, write
the SCCS file to the display screen with the \*Lcat\*O command,
or print selected parts of the file to standard output using the
\*Lprs\*O command. Remember not to change the contents of the SCCS file
directly. To change the delta comments, use the \*Lcdc\*O(1) command.
.PP
SCCS does not allow use of the \*Ldelta\*O command if an editable
file does not exist.  However, once an editable file exists (created
with \*Lget -e\*O), SCCS creates the delta without checking the
data being stored in the file.
.PP
Do not use the \*Ldelta\*O command on a
file if it contains expanded identification keywords.  Read-only
file versions replace keywords with text values.
Using \*Ldelta\*O on a read-only file causes the keywords to be
lost.  If this happens, remove the delta with the \*Lrmdel\*O
command or re-edit the file and replace the identification
keywords.  SCCS does not allow you to use \*Ldelta\*O unless an
editable copy of the file exists.
.PP
To prevent the loss of keywords, use the \*Ladmin\*O command
with the \*L-f\*O flag to specify the \*Li\*O option.
.\" .SS Japanese Language Support
.\" .PP 
.\" You can include Kanji characters in SCCS comments.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL 3m
.LI
To record changes you have made to an SCCS file, enter:
.iS
delta  s\&.prog\&.c
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This adds a delta to the SCCS file \*Ls.prog.c\*O, records
the changes made by editing \*Lprog.c\*O.  \*Ldelta\*O then
asks you for a comment that summarizes the changes you made.
Enter the comment, then press the End-of-File key sequence or press
\*L<Return>\*O twice to indicate that you have finished the comment.
.LI
To record changes to an SCCS file and specify the comment
for the delta on the command line, enter:
.iS
delta s\&.prog\&.c -y "Updated calendar function for 1993."
\*O\c
.iE
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
Lines beginning with an \*LSOH\*O ASCII character (binary 001)
.gL "ASCII"
cannot be placed in the SCCS file unless the \*LSOH\*O is quoted
using a \*L\e\*O (backslash).  SOH has special meaning to SCCS
and causes an error.  See the \*Lsccsfile\*O(4) reference page.
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
For information about exit values, see the \*L-m\*O flag description.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Ladmin\*O(1), \*Lbdiff\*O(1), \*Lcdc\*O(1), \*Lcomb\*O(1),
\*Lget\*O(1), \*Lprs\*O(1), \*Lrmdel\*O(1), \*Lsact\*O(1), \*Lsccsdiff\*O(1),
\*Lsccshelp\*O(1), \*Lunget\*O(1), \*Lval\*O(1), \*Lwhat\*O(1).
.PP
Files:  \*Lsccsfile\*O(4).
.\" .PP 
.PP
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
