.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: deroff.1,v $ $Revision: 3.3.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 20:21:52 $
.\"
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\" OSF/1 1.1 Snapshot 2
.\"
.TH deroff 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lderoff\*O \- Deletes \*Lneqn\*O, \*Lnroff\*O, and \*Ltbl\*O constructs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lderoff\*O
\*O[\*L-i\*O
|
\*L-l\*O]
\*O[\*L-kpuw\*O]
\*O[\*L-ma\*O
|
\*L-me\*O
|
\*L-mm\*O
|
\*L-ms\*O]
\*Vfile\*O
\&.\&.\&.
.PP
\*Lderoff\*O
\*O[\*L-i\*O
|
\*L-l\*O]
\*O[\*L-kpuw\*O]
\*L-mm\*O
\*L-ml\*O
\*Vfile\*O
\&.\&.\&.
.sE
.PP
The \*Lderoff\*O command reads the specified files (or standard input by
default), removes all \*Lnroff\*O requests, macro calls,
backslash constructs, \*Leqn\*O constructs (between \*L\&.EQ\*O
and \*L\&.EN\*O lines and between delimiters), and \*Ltbl\*O descriptions,
replacing many of them with spaces or blank lines, and writes the
remainder of the file to standard output.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-i\*O"
Suppresses processing of included files (\*L\&.so\*O and \*L\&.nx\*O).
.LI "\*L-k\*O"
Keeps blocks of text specified by requests or macros; for example, the
\*L\&.ne\*O request.
.LI "\*L-l\*O"
Suppresses processing of included files whose names begin with
\*L/usr/lib\*O (such as macro files in \*L/usr/lib/tmac\*O).
.LI "\*L-ma\*O"
Interprets \*Lman\*O macros only.
.LI "\*L-me\*O"
Interprets \*Lme\*O macros only.
.LI "\*L-ml\*O"
Ignores \*Lmm\*O macros and deletes \*Lmm\*O list structures.
The \*L-mm\*O flag must be specified with this flag.
.LI "\*L-mm\*O"
Interprets \*Lms\*O and \*Lmm\*O macros only.
.LI "\*L-ms\*O"
Interprets \*Lms\*O macros only.
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Performs special paragraph processing.
.LI "\*L-u\*O"
Removes \*L_\eb\*O and \*L\eb\*O in underlined and boldfaced words.
Automatically sets the \*L-w\*O flag.
.LI "\*L-w\*O"
Formats output into a word list, containing one word per line, with
all other characters deleted.
.LE
.PP
In text, a word is any string that contains at least
two letters and is composed of letters, digits, ampersands
(\*L&\*O), and apostrophes (\*L'\*O).  In a macro call, a word is a
string that begins with at least two letters and contains a total of at
least three letters.  Delimiters are any characters other than letters,
digits, ampersands, and apostrophes.
.PP
Trailing ampersands and apostrophes are removed from words.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "deroff command"
.iX "removing" "nroff, tbl, and eqn constructs"
.iX "files" "removing nroff, tbl, and eqn constructs"
The \*Lderoff\*O command normally follows chains of included
files (\*L\&.so\*O and \*L\&.nx\*O \*Lnroff\*O requests) and
processes those files.  If a file was already included,
a \*L\&.so\*O naming it is ignored and a \*L\&.nx\*O naming it ends execution.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Lderoff\*O command is not a complete \*Lnroff\*O interpreter,
so it may not handle complex constructs well.  Most errors result in
too much rather than too little output.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lneqn\*O(1), \*Lnroff\*O(1), \*Ltbl\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
