.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: df.1,v $ $Revision: 3.3.9.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/20 21:57:37 $
.\" 
...\"
...\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
...\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail
...\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
...\"
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
...\" Copyright (c) 1989 The Regents of the University of California.
...\" All rights reserved.
...\"
...\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
...\" provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
...\" duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
...\" advertising materials, and other materials related to such
...\" distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
...\" by the University of California, Berkeley.  The name of the
...\" University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived
...\" from this software without specific prior written permission.
...\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
...\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
...\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
...\"
...\" @(#)df.1  6.4 (Berkeley) 3/6/90
...\"
.TH df 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ldf\*O \- Displays statistics on free disk space
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The default behavior for the \*Ldf\*O command is BSD SVR4 compliant.  In
this case, the \*Ldf\*O command uses the following syntax:
.sS
\*Ldf\*O
\*O[\*L-eiknP\*O]
\*O[\*L-t\*O \*Vfstype\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O\
|
\*Vfile_system\*O
\&...]
.sE
.PP
To cause the \*Ldf\*O command to exhibit XPG/4 behavior, set the \*LCMD_ENV\*O
environment variable to \*Lxpg4\*O.  In this case, the \*Ldf\*O command
uses the following syntax:
.sS
\*Ldf\*O
\*O[\*L-eiknPt\*O]
\*O[\*L-F
\*O\*Vfstype\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O\
|
\*Vfile_system\*O
\&...]
.sE
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.rS 5
The \*LCMD_ENV\*O environment variable also affects the behavior of the
\*Lecho\*O command.  The \*LBIN_SH\*O environment variable affects the XPG/4
compliance of the Bourne shell.
.sp 6p
.rE
.PP
The \*Ldf\*O command displays statistics on the amount of free disk space on
\*Vfile_system\*O or on the file system that contains the specified
\*Vfile.\*O
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" New option
.LI "\*L-e\*O"
Displays information about the mounted file systems,
including the mount point, available space, and percentage of space
used.  NFS file systems that are served by the \*Lautomount\*O
daemon are usually not displayed.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L-F\*O \*Vfstype\*O"
[XPG4 only] Displays statistics for the specified file system type only.
Available file system types include the following:
.VL 4m
.\" Changed s5fs to sysv per Don Stadler (Version 2.0)
.LI "\*Lsysv\*O"
System V File System
.LI "\*Lnfs\*O"
Network File System
.\" .zA "defect, 8095, R1.1.2, delete pc type"
.\" .zZ "defect, 8095, R1.1.2, delete pc type"
.LI "\*Lufs\*O"
.\" .zA "defect, 7313, R1.1.2, no longer default type"
UNIX File system (Berkeley Fast File System)
.\" .zZ "defect, 7313, R1.1.2, no longer default type"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.LI "\*Lcdfs\*O"
ISO 9660 CDROM (Compact Disk Read-Only Memory) file system
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LE
.LI "\*L-i\*O"
Reports the number of free inodes.  The number of inodes controls the
number of files that can exist in a file system.
.LI "\*L-k\*O"
Causes the numbers to be reported in kilobytes.
By default, all reported BSD compatible numbers are in 512-byte blocks.
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Displays the previously obtained statistics from all mounted
file systems.  Use this flag if it is possible that one or more
file systems are in a state such that they will not be able
to provide statistics without a long delay (for example, if you have
a remote file system on a server that has crashed).
If you specify the \*L-n\*O flag, the \*Ldf\*O command
does not request new statistics from
the file systems; for some remote file systems, the statistics displayed
may be too obsolete to be useful.
.LI "\*L-P\*O"
Produces output that consists of one line of information for each
specified file system, with reported numbers in 512-byte blocks
(default).
.LI "\*L-t\*O"
[XPG4 only] Includes total allocated space figures in the output (default).
.LI "\*L-t\*O \*Vfstype\*O"
[SVR4 only] Displays statistics for only the specified file system type.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lcdfs\*O"
ISO 9660 CDROM (Compact Disk Read-Only Memory) File System
.LI "\*Lnfs\*O"
Network File System
.LI "\*Lpcfs\*O"
Xenix
.LI "\*Lufs\*O"
UNIX File system (Berkeley Fast File System) (default)
.LI "\*Lmfs\*O"
Memory File System
.\" Added sysv per Don Stadler (Version 2.0)
.LI "\*Lsysv\*O"
System V File System
.LE
.\" .RS
.\" .VL 4m
.\" Commenting out mfs per Sarah Tappan (QAR 9654).
.\" End Digital-specific information
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Commenting out s5fs because it isn't supported in Version 1.2. (QAR 7858)
.\" .LI "\*Ls5fs\*O" 
.\" System V File System
.\" End Digital-specific information
.\" .LE
.\" .RE
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "df command"
.iX "reporting" "free disk space"
.iX "displaying" "statistics on free disk space"
.iX "free disk space" "statistics on"
.iX "disk" "space"
.iX "block" "disk"
.iX "disk" "block"
To obtain XPG/4 compliance, set the environment variable \*LCMD_ENV\*O to
\*Lxpg4\*O.  If the environment variable is not set or it is set to
another value, the environment defaults to BSD.  If neither a file or a file
system is specified, statistics for all mounted file systems are displayed.
.PP
When file system disk usage exceeds 100% of the allowed space for users,
the \*Ldf\*O command displays a negative number of free blocks. The
allowed space for users is typically 90% of disk capacity, with 10%
reserved for use by root only.  However, system administrators may
specify
either less or more reserved space for use by root.
.\" .zA "defect, 8095, R1.1.2, add/delete info"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.SS "System V Compatibility"
The root of the directory tree that contains the commands modified
for SVID-2 compliance is specified in the file \*L/etc/svid2_path\*O. You
can use \*L/etc/svid2_profile\*O as the basis for, or to include
in, your \*L.profile\*O.  The file \*L/etc/svid2_profile\*O reads
\*L/etc/svid2_path\*O and
sets the first entries in the \*LPATH\*O environment variable so that
the modified SVID-2 commands are found first.
.PP
The \*Ldf\*O command, as modified for SVID-2 compliance, accepts
one command line option (\*L-t\*O, print space totals) and an
optional file system name or device name.  The command
displays the mount point, the mounted device, the number of free
blocks (in 512-byte quantities), and the number of free inodes.  If
the \*L-t\*O option is specified, the command displays, on a
separate line following the free block counts, the total
number of blocks and inodes for each mounted device.
.SS "Advanced File System"
For AdvFS filesets, the
\*Ldf\*O
command displays disk space usage information for each fileset.
The
\*Lkbyte\*O
or
\*L512-Blks\*O
column shows the maximum amount of space that a fileset can occupy.
Since meta data take away space from the file domain, not all
of this space is available for use by the fileset.  Also, if a fileset block
quota is set, this column displays the block quota amount.  This is still
the maximum amount of space that the fileset can occupy, but it is limited by
the quota rather than the size of the file domain.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Ldu\*O(1), \*Lecho\*O(1), \*Lmount\*O(8), \*Lquot\*O(8),
\*Lquota\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1), \*Lshowfsets\*O(8), \*Lvquot\*O(8),
\*Lvquota\*O(1).
.PP
Functions: \*Lfstatfs\*O(2), \*Lstatfs\*O(2).
.PP
Files: \*Lfstab\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
