.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: diction.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/26 19:36:17 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Added 'suggest' to the NAME line per QARs 7330 and 8562.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\"
.TH diction 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ldiction\*O, \*Lexplain\*O, \*Lsuggest\*O - Prints wordy sentences and looks them up in an interactive thesaurus.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "diction command"
.iX "explain command"
.iX "suggest command"
.iX "displaying" "wordy sentences"
.iX "wordy sentences" "displaying"
.iX "interactive thesaurus"
.iX "thesaurus" "interactive"
.sS
\*Ldiction\*O
\*O[\*L-f\*Vpattern_file\*O]
\*O[\*L-k\*O]
\*O[\*L-ma\*O]
\*O[\*L-me\*O]
\*O[\*L-ml\*O]
\*O[\*L-ms\*O]
\*O[\*L-n\*O]
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" No idea what the correction was for.  Simply changed BDEC-C tag to comment.
\*O[\*Vfile ...\*O]
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.PP
\*Lexplain\*O
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Added 'suggest' per QARs 7330 and 8562.
.PP
\*Lsuggest\*O
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.sE
.PP
The \*Ldiction\*O command
finds all sentences in an English language document that contain phrases
from a database of bad or wordy diction.
The \*Lexplain\*O command
is an interactive thesaurus for the English language phrases found
by the \*Ldiction\*O command and only for those phrases.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Simply changed the BDEC-C tag to the full comment.
.PP
The \*Ldiction\*O command reads from standard in if no \*Vfile\*O
operand is provided.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Added information about 'suggest' per QARs 7330 and 8562.
.PP
The \*Lsuggest\*O command is a synonym for \*Lexplain\*O.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-f\*Vpattern_file\*O"
Names a user-created pattern file to be used in addition to the
default file.
.LI "\*L-k\*O"
Passes the \*L-k\*O flag to the \*Lderoff\*O command.
The \*L-k\*O flag keeps blocks of text specified \*Lnroff\*O
by requests or macros; for example, the \*L\&.ne\*O request.
.LI "\*L-ma\*O"
Passes the \*L-ma\*O flag to \*Lderoff\*O.
The \*L-ma\*O flag interprets \*Lnroff\*O \*Lman\*O macros only.
.LI "\*L-me\*O"
Overrides the default \*Lnroff\*O \*L-ms\*O macro package.
.LI "\*L-ml\*O"
Causes \*Lderoff\*O to skip lists; should be used if a
document contains many lists of nonsentences.
.LI "\*L-mm\*O"
Overrides the default \*Lnroff\*O \*L-ms\*O macro package.
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Suppresses use of the default file (used with \*L-f\*O).
Only the user-created pattern file is used.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Each phrase found by the \*Ldiction\*O command is enclosed in [ ]
(brackets).  Because \*Ldiction\*O
runs \*Lderoff\*O before looking at the text, include formatting
header files as part of the input.
.PP
Before using
the \*Lexplain\*O command, use the \*Ldiction\*O command to obtain a
list of poorly worded phrases.  When you use the \*Lexplain\*O
command, the system prompts you for a phrase and responds with a
grammatically acceptable alternative.  You can continue typing
phrases, or you can exit by pressing the End-of-File key sequence.
.PP
The \*Lexplain\*O command can also take input redirected from a file.
No other command line arguments are valid.
.SH NOTES
.PP
Use of nonstandard formatting macros may cause
incorrect sentence breaks.  In particular, \*Ldiction\*O
does not understand \*L-me\*O.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/lbin/dict.d\*O"
Default pattern file.
.LI "\*L/usr/lbin/explain.d\*O"
Thesaurus used by the \*Lexplain\*O command.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lderoff\*O(1), \*Lnroff\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
