.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: diffmk.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/26 19:39:10 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH diffmk 1
.SH NAME
\*Ldiffmk\*O \- Marks differences between files
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Ldiffmk\*O
\*O[\*L-b\*O]
\*O[\*L-ab'\*Vmark\*L']
\*O[\*L-ae'\*Vmark\*L']
\*O[\*L-cb'\*Vmark\*L']
\*O[\*L-ce'\*Vmark\*L']
\*O[\*L-db'\*Vmark\*L']
\*O[\*L-de'\*Vmark\*L']
\*Vfile1\*O
\*Vfile2\*O
.sE 
.PP
The \*Ldiffmk\*O command compares two versions of a file
and creates a new file that marks the differences.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 
.LI "\*L-ab'\*Vmark\*O'"
Uses \*Vmark\*O to mark where added lines begin.
.LI "\*L-ae'\*Vmark\*O'" 
Uses \*Vmark\*O to mark where added lines end.
.LI "\*L-b\*O" 
Ignores differences that are only changes in tabs or spaces on a line.
.LI "\*L-cb'\*Vmark\*O'" 
Uses \*Vmark\*O to mark where changed lines begin.
.LI "\*L-ce'\*Vmark\*O'" 
Uses \*Vmark\*O to mark where changed lines end.
.LI "\*L-db'\*Vmark\*O'" 
Uses \*Vmark\*O to mark where deleted lines begin.
.LI "\*L-de'\*Vmark\*O'" 
Uses \*Vmark\*O to mark where deleted lines end.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "diffmk command"
.iX "files" "comparing"
.iX "comparing" "files"
.PP 
The \*Vfile1\*O and \*Vfile2\*O variables are the old and new versions
of the file, respectively.  The \*Ldiffmk\*O command compares them and writes
a new version to standard output, which can be redirected to a file.
This output contains the lines of \*Vfile2\*O marked with \*Lnroff\*O change
mark requests (\*L\&.mc\*O), or with the \*Vmarks\*O you specify with the
\*L-ab\*O, \*L-ae\*O, \*L-cb\*O, \*L-ce\*O, \*L-db\*O, and \*L-de\*O flags.
.PP 
When output containing \*L\&.mc\*O requests is formatted with \*Lnroff\*O,
changed or inserted lines are marked by
a \*L|\*O (vertical bar) at the right margin of each line.
An \*L*\*O (asterisk) indicates that a line was deleted.
.PP 
.iX "DIFFMARK variable"
If the \*LDIFFMARK\*O environment variable is defined, it names a command
string that \*Ldiffmk\*O uses to compare the files.  (Normally,
\*Ldiffmk\*O uses the \*Ldiff\*O command.)  For example, you might set
\*LDIFFMARK\*O to \*Ldiff -h\*O in order to better handle extremely large files.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
.AL 3m 
.LI
To mark the differences between two versions of a text file, enter:
.iS
diffmk -ab'>I:' -ae'<I' -cb'>C' -ce'<C' -db'>D' -de'<D' \e
	chap1.old chap1 >chap1.diffs
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This causes \*Ldiffmk\*O to create a copy of \*Lchap1\*O called
\*Lchap1.diffs\*O, showing differences between \*Lchap1.old\*O and
\*Lchap1\*O.  Additions of one or more lines are marked with \*L>I\*O
and \*L<I\*O, changed lines are marked with \*L>C\*O and \*L<C\*O, and
deletions are marked with \*L>D\*O and \*L<D\*O.
.LI
To mark differences with \*Lnroff\*O requests, enter:
.iS
diffmk  chap1.old  chap1  > chap1.nroff
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This produces a copy of \*Lchap1\*O called \*Lchap1.nroff\*O
containing \*Lnroff\*O change mark requests to
identify text that was added to, changed, or deleted
from \*Lchap1.old\*O.
.LI
To use different \*Lnroff\*O marking requests
and ignore changes in white space, enter:
.iS
diffmk  -b  -cb'\&.mc  %'  chap1.old  chap1  > chap1.nroff
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This imbeds commands that mark changes with \*L%\*O (percent sign), additions
with \*L|\*O (the default, because no \*L-a\*O flag is specified), and
deletions with \*L*\*O (the default).  It does not
mark changes that only involve a different
number of spaces or tabs between words (\*L-b\*O).
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Ldiff\*O(1).
.PP 
\*Lnroff\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
