.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: diff3.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/07/22 13:29:19 $
.\" 
...\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" 
.TH diff3 1
.iX "diff3 command"
.SH NAME
.PP 
\*Ldiff3\*O - Compares three files
.iX "files" "comparing three"
.iX "comparing" "three files"
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Ldiff3\*O
\*O[\*L-e\*O
|
\*L-x\*O
|
\*L-E\*O
|
\*L-X\*O
|
\*L-3\*O]
\*Vfile1 file2 file3\*O
.sE 
.PP
The \*Ldiff3\*O command reads three versions of a file and writes
to standard output the ranges of text that differ.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-e\*O"
Creates an edit script for use with the \*Led\*O command to
incorporate into \*Vfile1\*O all changes between \*Vfile2\*O
and \*Vfile3\*O (that is, the changes that normally would be
flagged \*L====\*O and \*L====3\*O).
.LI "\*L-x\*O" 
Produces an edit script to incorporate only changes flagged \*L====\*O.
.LI "\*L-E\*O,\*L-X\*O" 
These are similar to \*L-e\*O and \*L-x\*O, respectively,
but treat overlapping
changes (that is, changes that are flagged \*L====\*O in
the normal listing) differently.  The overlapping lines from both
files are inserted by the edit script, bracketed by
\*L<<<<<<\*O and \*L>>>>>>\*O lines.
.PP
The \*L-E\*O
flag is used by RCS \*Lmerge\*O to ensure that overlapping
.gL "Revision Control System"
.gL "RCS"
changes in the merged files are preserved and brought to someone's
attention.
.LI "\*L-3\*O" 
Produces an edit script to incorporate only changes flagged \*L====3\*O.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP 
The \*Ldiff3\*O command reads three versions of a file and writes
to standard output the ranges of text that differ, flagged with the
following codes:
.rS
.VL 7m
.LI "\*L====\*O"
All three files differ.
.LI "\*L====1\*O" 
\*Vfile1\*O differs.
.LI "\*L====2\*O" 
\*Vfile2\*O differs.
.LI "\*L====3\*O" 
\*Vfile3\*O differs.
.LE 
.rE 
.PP 
The type of change needed to convert a given range of a given file to
match another file is indicated in one of these two ways in the output:
.rS
.VL 7m
.LI "\*Vfile\*O  :  \*Vnumber1\*O \*La\*O"
Text is to be added after line number \*Vnumber1\*O in
\*Vfile\*O, where \*Vfile\*O is \*L1\*O, \*L2\*O, or
\*L3\*O.
.LI "\*Vfile\*O  :  \*Vnumber1\*O[,\*Vnumber2\*O]  \*Lc\*O" 
Text in the range line \*Vnumber1\*O to line \*Vnumber2\*O is to be
changed.  If \*Vnumber1\*O = \*Vnumber2\*O, the range may be abbreviated
to \*Vnumber1\*O.
.LE 
.rE 
.PP 
The original contents of the range follow immediately after a
\*Lc\*O indication.  When the contents of two files are identical,
\*Ldiff3\*O does not show the contents of the lower-numbered file,
although it shows the location of the identical lines for each.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
To list the differences among three files, enter:
.iS
diff3  fruit.a  fruit.b  fruit.c
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
\*Lfruit.a\*O, \*Lfruit.b\*O, and \*Lfruit.c\*O
contain the following data:
.PP
\*Lfruit.a\*O:
.iS
banana
grape
kiwi
lemon
mango
orange
peach
pare
\*O
.iE
.PP
\*Lfruit.b\*O:
.iS
apple
banana
grapefruit
kiwi
orange
peach
pear
\*O
.iE
.PP
\*Lfruit.c\*O:
.iS
grape
grapefruit
kiwi
lemon
mango
orange
peach
pear
\*O
.iE
.PP
The output from \*Ldiff3\*O shows the differences
between these files as follows.
(The comments on the right do not appear in the output.)
.oS
====		\*OAll three files are different.\*C
1:1,2c		\*O	- Lines 1 and 2 of the first file, \*Lfruit.a\*C
  banana
  grape
2:1,3c		\*O	- Lines 1 through 3 of \*Lfruit.b\*C
  apple
  banana
  grapefruit
3:1,2c		\*O	- Lines 1 and 2 of \*Lfruit.c\*C
  grape
  grapefruit
====2		\*OThe second file, \*Lfruit.b\*O, is different.\*C
1:4,5c		\*O	- Lines 4 and 5 are the same in \*Lfruit.a\*O and \*Lfruit.c\*O.\*C
2:4a			
3:4,5c		\*O	- To make \*Lfruit.b\*O look the same, add text after line 4.\*C
  lemon		
  mango
====1		\*OThe first file, \*Lfruit.a\*O, is different.\*C
1:8c
  pare
2:7c		\*O	- Line 7 of \*Lfruit.b\*O and line 8 of \*Lfruit.c\*O are the same.\*C
3:8c			
  pear
\*O
.oE
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/lbin/diff3prog\*O"
Helper program.
.LE 
.SH NOTES
.PP 
Editing scripts produced by the \*L-e\*O flag cannot create
lines consisting only of a single \&. (dot).
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lbdiff\*O(1), \*Lcmp\*O(1), \*Lcomm\*O(1), \*Ldiff\*O(1),
\*Led\*O(1)/\*Lred\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
