.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: diff.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/19 15:31:41 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH diff 1
.SH NAME
\*Ldiff\*O \- Compares text files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*Ldiff\*O
\*O[\*L\(hyc\*O\ |\ \*L\(hyC\ \*Vnumber\*O\ |\ \*L\(hye\*O\ |\ \*L\(hyf\*O\ |
\*L\(hyh\*O\ |\ \*L\(hyn\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hybilrstw\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyS\*Vfile\*O]
\*Vdirectory1 directory2\*O
.in -.5i
.PP
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*Ldiff\*O
\*O[\*L\(hyc\*O\ |\ \*L\(hyC\ \*Vnumber\*O\ |\ \*L\(hye\*O\ |\ \*L\(hyf\*O
|\ \*L\(hyh\*O\ |\ \*L\(hyn\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hybitw\*O]
\*Vfile1 file2\*O
.PP
\*Ldiff\*O
\*O[\*L\(hyD\*Vstring\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hybitw\*O]
\*Vfile1 file2\*O
.in -.5i
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
The \*L-c\*O, \*L-C\*O,
\*L-e\*O, \*L-f\*O, \*L-h\*O, and \*L-n\*O flags are mutually exclusive.
.PP
The \*L-r\*O, \*L-s\*O, and \*L-S\*O flags can be specified with
directory comparisons only.
.PP
The \*L-b\*O, \*L-i\*O, \*L-l\*O, \*L-t\*O, and \*L-w\*O flags can be used in
combination with any others and in both file and directory comparisons.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-b\*O"
Causes trailing white space at the end of a line to be treated as a
single newline character.
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Produces a listing with the default number of
lines of context (3 lines).  The output lists the files being compared
and their last modification dates, then lists the differing lines.
Lines that are changed from one file to the other are
marked in both files with an \*L!\*O (exclamation point).
Changes that lie within the specified number of
lines of each other are grouped together on output.
.LI "\*L-C \*Vnumber\*O"
Produces output that provides \*Vnumber\*O lines of context
(where \*Vnumber\*O is a positive decimal integer).
.LI "\*L-D\*Vstring\*O"
Causes \*Ldiff\*O to create a merged version of \*Vfile1\*O and \*Vfile2\*O
on the standard output, with C preprocessor controls included.
Thus, a compilation of the result without defining \*Vstring\*O is equivalent
to compiling \*Vfile1\*O, while defining \*Vstring\*O yields \*Vfile2\*O.
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.LI "\*L-e\*O"
Produces a script of \*La\*O, \*Lc\*O, \*Ld\*O, and \*Ls\*O
commands for the editor \*Led\*O, which can recreate
\*Vfile2\*O from \*Vfile1\*O.  In connection with \*L-e\*O,
the following shell program can help maintain multiple versions of a file.
Only an ancestral file \*L($1\*O) and a chain of version-to-version \*Led\*O
scripts (\*L$2\*O, \*L$3\*O, ...) made by \*Ldiff\*O need be on hand.
A "latest version" appears on the standard output.
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.oS
(shift; cat $*; echo '1,$p') | ed - $1
\*O\c
.oE
.IP
Extra commands are added to the output when comparing directories with
\*L-e\*O; the result is a \*Lsh\*O
script for converting text files common to the directories
from their state in \*Vdirectory1\*O to their state in \*Vdirectory2\*O.
.LI "\*L-f\*O"
Produces a script similar to that of \*L-e\*O, not useful with \*Led\*O,
and in the opposite order.
.LI "\*L-h\*O"
Performs a faster comparison.  This flag only works when the
changed sections are short and well separated, but it does
work on files of any length.  The \*L-e\*O and \*L-f\*O
flags are not available when you use the \*L-h\*O flag.
.LI "\*L-i\*O"
Ignores the case of letters.  For example,
\*LA\*O is considered identical to \*La\*O.
.LI "\*L-l\*O"
Specifies long output format; each text file \*Ldiff\*O listing
is piped through \*Lpr\*O to paginate it,
other differences are remembered and summarized
after all text file differences are reported.  (Directory comparisons only.)
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Produces a script similar to that of \*L-e\*O,
but in the opposite order and with a count of changed lines on each
insert or delete command.  This is the form used by the
revision control system (RCS).
.gL "Revision Control System"
.gL "RCS"
.LI "\*L-r\*O"
Checks files in common subdirectories recursively.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Reports identical files, which are otherwise not mentioned.
.LI "\*L-S\*Vfile\*O"
Starts a directory \*Ldiff\*O in the middle, beginning with
\*Vfile\*O.  (Directory comparisons only.)
.LI "\*L-t\*O"
Expands tabs in output lines.  Normal or \*L-c\*O
output adds characters to the front of each line that can affect
the indentation of the original source lines and make the output listing
difficult to interpret.  This flag preserves the original source's
indentation.
.LI "\*L-w\*O"
Is similar to \*L-b\*O,
but causes whitespace (spaces and tabs) to be ignored.  For
example,
\*Lif ( a == b )\*O is considered identical to \*Lif(a==b)\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "diff command"
.iX "comparing" "text files"
.iX "files" "comparing"
.SS Input Options
.IP
If neither \*Vfile1\*O nor \*Vfile2\*O
is a directory, then either
can be given as \*L-\*O (dash), in which case the standard input is used.
If \*Vfile1\*O is a directory and \*Vfile2\*O is a file, or vice versa,
a file in the specified directory with the same name as the specified file
is used.
.IP
If both arguments are directories,
\*Ldiff\*O sorts the contents of the
directories by name, and then runs the
regular \*Ldiff\*O file algorithm on text files that are different.
Binary files that differ, common subdirectories, and files that appear in
only one directory are also listed.
.SS Output Options
.IP
There are several choices for output format.
The default output format contains lines of these forms:
.iS
\*Vnumber1\*O \*La\*O \*Vnumber2,number3\*O
\*Vnumber1,number2\*O \*Ld\*O \*Vnumber3\*O
\*Vnumber1,number2\*O \*Lc\*O \*Vnumber3,number4\*O
\*O
.iE
.IP
These lines resemble \*Led\*O commands to convert \*Vfile1\*O into \*Vfile2\*O.
\*La\*O indicates that a line or lines were \*Vadded\*O to one of the
files; \*Ld\*O indicates that a line or lines were \*Vdeleted\*O; and \*Lc\*O
indicates that a line or lines were \*Vchanged\*O.
The numbers after the letters pertain to \*Vfile2\*O.
In fact, by exchanging \*La\*O for \*Ld\*O and reading backward
one can ascertain equally how to convert \*Vfile2\*O into \*Vfile1\*O.
As in \*Led\*O, identical pairs where
\*Vnumber1\*O = \*Vnumber2\*O or \*Vnumber3\*O = \*Vnumber4\*O are abbreviated as a single number.
.IP
Following each of these lines come all the lines that are
affected in the first file, flagged by \*L<\*O (left angle bracket),
then all the lines that are affected in the second file, flagged by \*L>\*O
(right angle bracket).
.IP
Except in rare circumstances, \*Ldiff\*O
finds the smallest sufficient set of file differences.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To compare two files, enter:
.iS
diff chap1.bak chap1
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This displays the differences between the files \*Lchap1.bak\*O
and \*Lchap1\*O.
.LI
To compare two files, ignoring differences in the amount of
white space, enter:
.iS
diff -b prog.c.bak prog.c
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
If two lines differ only in the number of spaces and tabs
between words, then the \*Ldiff\*O command considers them to
be the same.
.LI
To create a file containing commands that the \*Led\*O
command can use to reconstruct one file from another, enter:
.iS
diff -e ch2 ch2.old > new.old.ed
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This creates a file named \*Lnew.to.old.ed\*O that contains
the \*Led\*O subcommands to change \*Lchap2\*O back into
the version of the text found in \*Lchap2.old\*O.
In most cases, \*Lnew.to.old.ed\*O is a much smaller file
than \*Lchap2.old\*O.
.LI
You can save disk space by deleting
\*Lchap2.old\*O, and you can reconstruct it at any time by
entering:
.iS
(cat new.old.ed ; echo '1,$p') | ed - ch2 > ch2.old
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The commands in parentheses add \*L1,$p\*O to the end of the
editing commands sent to the \*Led\*O editor.  The
\*L1,$p\*O causes the \*Led\*O command to write the file to
standard output after editing it.  This modified command
sequence is then piped to the \*Led\*O command ( \*L| ed\*O ), and
the editor reads it as standard input.  The \*L\&-\*O flag
causes the \*Led\*O command not to display the file size and
other extra information, since it would be mixed with the
text of \*Lchap2.old\*O.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/lbin/diffh\*O"
For the \*L-h\*O flag.
.LI "\*L/usr/bin/pr\*O"
For the \*L-l\*O flag.
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
.AL
.LI
Editing scripts produced by the \*L-e\*O or \*L-f\*O flags cannot
create lines consisting of a single . (dot) character.
.LI
Block, character, or FIFO special files cannot be used with \*Ldiff\*O
because they cause the command to exit.
.LI
If lines at the end of a file are changed and other lines added,
\*Ldiff\*O output may show this as a delete and add, as a change, or as
a change and add. That is, \*Ldiff\*O is not expected to know what
happened.
.LE
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
An exit value of 0 (zero) indicates no differences, 1 indicates
differences found, and a number greater than 1 indicates an error.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lbdiff\*O(1), \*Lcmp\*O(1), \*Lcomm\*O(1), \*Ldiff3\*O(1),
\*Led\*O(1)/\*Lred\*O(1), \*Lpr\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
