.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dircmp.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/20 19:41:34 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH dircmp 1
.SH NAME
\*Ldircmp\*O \- Compares two directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ldircmp\*O
\*O[\*L-d\*O]
\*O[\*L-s\*O]
\*Vdirectory1\*O
\*Vdirectory2\*O
.sE
.PP
The \*Ldircmp\*O command reads \*Vdirectory1\*O and
\*Vdirectory2\*O, compares their contents, and writes the results
to standard output.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-d\*O"
Displays for each common filename the differing contents of the two files,
if any.  The display format is the same as that of the \*Ldiff\*O command.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Does not list the names of identical files.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "dircmp command"
.iX "directories" "comparing"
.iX "comparing" "directories"
.iX "comparing" "files"
.iX "files" "comparing"
.PP
First, \*Ldircmp\*O compares the filenames in
each directory.  When the same filename appears in both,
\*Ldircmp\*O compares the contents of the two files.
.PP
In the output, \*Ldircmp\*O lists the files unique to each
directory.  It then lists the files with identical names but
different contents.  If entered without a flag, \*Ldircmp\*O also lists
files that have both identical names and identical contents.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To summarize the differences between the files in two directories, enter:
.iS
dircmp  proj.ver1  proj.ver2
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This displays a summary of the differences between the directories
\*Lproj.ver1\*O and \*Lproj.ver2\*O.  The summary lists
separately the files found only in one directory or the other, and those
found in both.  If the file is found in both directories, the file is
listed.  If the files are identical, \*Ldircmp\*O displays \*Cidentical\*O;
otherwise, \*Ldircmp\*O displays \*Cdifferent\*O.
.LI
To show the details of the differences between files, enter:
.iS
dircmp  -d  -s  proj.ver1  proj.ver2
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The \*L-s\*O flag suppresses information about identical files.
The \*L-d\*O flag displays a \*Ldiff\*O listing for each of
the differing files found in both directories.
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
In many cases, \*Ldiff -r\*O, rather than \*Ldircmp\*O, is preferred.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcmp\*O(1), \*Ldiff\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
