.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dis.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/09 19:43:46 $
.\" 
.\" -----------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.  All Rights |
.\" | Reserved. 	                                       |
.\" -----------------------------------------------------
.\"  dis.1 2.5
.TH dis 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ldis\*O \- Disassemble an object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Ldis\*O [ \*L-h\*O ] [ \*L-d\*O ] [ \*L-S\*O ]
[ \*L-I\*Vdirectory\*O ] [ \*L-p\*O \*Vprocedure\*O ]
[ \*L-s\*O \*Vsection-name\*O ] \*Vfile\*O ...
.\" .BR dis "  [" -h "] [" -d "] [" -S "] [" -I
.\" .IR directory "] ["
.\" .BR -p "\f2procedure\fP "] [" -s
.\" .IR section "] " file "..."
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.iX "dis command"
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-h\*O"
Causes the general register names to be printed, rather than
the software register names.
.LI "\*L\-d\*O"
Generates output suitable for comparing with \*Ldiff\*O(1).
The source address and binary instruction data are omitted.
.LI "\*L\-S\*O"
Causes source code to be listed.  Otherwise, only instructions are listed.
.LI "\*L\-I\*Vdirectory\*O"
Specifies a path to be prefixed to the name of the source file when
attempting to locate the source file for use with the \*L\-S\*O flag.
.LI "\*L\-p \*Vprocedure\*O"
Disassembles only the specified procedure from the object file.
.LI "\*L\-s \*Vsection-name\*O"
Specifies the section to be disassembled.  If \*L\-s\*O is not
specified, the \*L.text\*O section is disassembled.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Ldis\*O command disassembles object files into machine instructions.
Please note that assembler code and machine code can differ on this machine.
A \*Vfile\*O can be an object or an archive.
.\" .SH RESTRICTIONS
.\" .\" .PP
.\" .\" Disassembling an archive is not currently operational.
.\" .PP
.\" When the \*Ldis\*O command is used with the \*L\-p\*O flag, it
.\" occasionally terminates prematurely and displays the following message:
.\" .oS
.\" Segmentation fault (core dumped)
.\" .oE
.\" .PP
.\" In the few cases when this problem occurs, it usually does so
.\" shortly after a \*Lbsr\*O has been disassembled.  If you encounter
.\" this problem, use the \*Ldis\*O command without the \*L\-p\*O flag.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
