.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dist.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:28:17 $
.\"
.TH dist 1
.SH NAME
dist \- redistribute a message to additional addresses
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B dist
[
\*Vmsg\*O
] [
\*V+folder\*O
] [
\*Voptions\*O
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.\" .SH Arguments
.\" .IP \f2msg\f1 10
.\" The number of the message to be redistributed.
.\" If you do not specify a message number, the default is to
.\" take the current message.
.\" You can only specify one message at a time with
.\" \*Ldist\*O.
.\" The message you specify becomes the current message.
.\"
.\"
.\" .IP \f2+folder\f1
.\" Specifies the folder of the message to be redistributed.
.\" If this argument is not present, the default is to take the
.\" current folder.
.\" The folder you specify becomes the current folder.
.\" This argument can be used in conjunction with the \f2msg\f1
.\" argument.
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "dist command"
.iX "redistributing messages"
Use \*Ldist\*O to redistribute a message to addresses
that are not on the original address list.
.\"
.\" ***Info from old Arguments section
.PP
You can specify the message which you want
to redistribute by giving a message number as the
\*Vmsg \*O
argument.
If you do not supply a message number, \*Ldist\*O takes the current message.
You can only redistribute one message at a time.
You can also specify a message in another folder
by giving the
\*V+folder\*O
argument.
This argument can be used in conjunction with the \f2msg\f1
argument.
.\"
.\" ***End of Arguments info
.\"
.PP
The program \*Ldist\*O is similar to \*Lforw\*O.
The main difference between the two commands is that \*Lforw\*O encapsulates
the message, whereas \*Ldist\*O merely resends it.
You cannot add any new text of your own to a message
that you re-distribute using \*Ldist\*O.
A message that has been forwarded will appear to have been
sent by the person who forwarded the message.
A message that has been redistributed using \*Ldist\*O
will appear to have come from the sender of the original message.
This is shown in the scan listing of the messages.
In the following example, messages 1 and 2 are identical
apart from the method used to send the message on
to additional recipients:
.oS
   1  20/06 goodman            Hello <<As you will see from th
   2+ 21/06 John               As previous, but forwarded <<---
.oE
.PP
When you use \*Ldist\*O, you will get a message form to fill in with
the details of the additional
recipients.  The default message form contains the following elements:
.oS
Resent-To:
Resent-cc:
.\" Resent-Xmts:
.\"
.\"
.oE
.PP
If the file named \*Ldist\*O comps
exists in your Mail directory, standardly \*L$HOME/Mail\*O, it
is used instead of the standard mail header.
If the option
.B \-form
\*Vformfile\*O
is given, it overrides both of these.
.PP
You can only put recognized header lines in your message form.
The \*Ldist\*O program recognizes values in the following fields:
.oS
Resent\-To:
Resent\-cc:
Resent\-Bcc:
Resent\-Fcc:
Resent\-Xmts:
.oE
.PP
.\" The \*LResent\-Fcc:\*O
.\" field will be used only if you have a corresponding \*LResent\-Fcc:\*O
.\" folder set up in your
.\" \*L\&.mh_profile\*O;
.\" see
.\" \*Lsend\*O(1).
The headers and the body of the original message are copied
to the draft when the message is sent.
You cannot add any new body text of your own when
redistributing a message with \*Ldist\*O.
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.PP
You can specify whether you wish to resend the message to
X.400 users or to non-X.400 users by entering a value in the
\*LResent-Xmts:\*O field of the message form.
There are two valid entries: \*Lx400\*O to resend the message
over the X.400 transport system; \*Lsmtp\*O to
resend it using non-X.400 transport.
You can use upper- or lower-case letters,
or a combination of the two.
The default is to assume non-X.400 transport.
You cannot resend a single message to
both X.400 and non-X.400 users; you must choose one
or the other.
If you do make an entry in the \*LResent-Xmts:\*O field,
this will override any option you specify
later by using the
.B \-mts
\*Vmtsname\*O
option with \*Lsend\*O or \*Lwhom\*O.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.PP
If you do not have a draft folder set up, \*Ldist\*O
creates the message form in a file called \*Ldraft\*O in your Mail directory.
This file must be empty before you can create a new draft,
which means that you can only store one draft at a time.
If it is not empty, the mail system asks you
what you want to do with the existing contents.
The options are:
.TP 10
\*Lquit\*O
Aborts \*Ldist\*O, leaving the draft intact.
.TP 10
\*Lreplace\*O
Replaces the existing draft with the appropriate message form.
.\" .TP 10
.\" \*Luse\*O
.\" Allows you to edit the existing draft.
.TP 10
\*Llist\*O
Displays the draft message.
.TP 10
\*Lrefile\*O
Refiles the existing draft message in the specified folder,
and provides a new message form for you to complete.
.PP
If you want to be able to have more than one draft at a time,
you can set up a draft folder in your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O.
This allows you to keep as many unsent drafts as space
allows,
and still create new messages as you wish.
To do this, make sure that the following line is in your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O:
.oS
Draft-folder: +drafts
.oE
For more information on how to do this, see \*Lmh_profile\*O(4).
.PP
You cannot store unsent messages created using \*Ldist\*O in your draft folder.
If you attempt to do so,
only the message form is stored.
This does not contain the original message
that you are redistributing,
so you will not be able to send it later.
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT - NOT NECESSARY
.ig
.PP
If you set up a draft folder,
all draft messages are created in that folder.
If you decide not to send the draft, by typing \*Lquit\*O at the
\*LWhat now?\*O prompt,
the message is stored in the draft folder.
However, only the message form is stored.
This does not contain the original message that you
are redistributing, so you will not be able
to send it later.
.PP
The \*Ldist\*O command originally used headers of the form
\*LDistribute\-xxx:\*O instead of \*LResent\-xxx:\*O.
In order to conform with the ARPA Internet standard RFC-822,
the \*LResent\-xxx:\*O form is now used.
The \*Ldist\*O command will recognize \*LDistribute\-xxx:\*O type headers
and automatically convert them to \*LResent\-xxx\*O.
.PP
While you are in the editor,
the message being resent is available through a link named
\*L@\*O
(assuming the default \*Lwhatnowproc\*O).  If your current
working directory is not writable,
this link is not available.
In addition, the actual pathname of the message is stored in the
environment variable \*L$editalt\*O,
and the pathname of the folder containing the message is stored in the
variable \*L$mhfolder\*O.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.PP
If you use \*Lrepl\*O to reply to a message resent to you by \*Ldist\*O, the
reply will go to the sender of the original message,
rather than the person who forwarded it to you.
The \*Lrepl\*O command ignores the
\*LResent-xxx:\*O
fields when creating the header for your draft reply.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP \-annotate 10
.PD 0
.IP \-noannotate 10
.PD
Annotates the message that you are redistributing.
The following lines are added to the message that you are
redistributing:
.oS
Resent:\ date
Resent:\ addrs
.oE
The first line records the time at which the message
was redistributed; the second records the addresses of the
recipients of the redistributed message.
.IP
The \*Ldist\*O command only annotates messages when they are successfully sent.
If you do not send the message immediately and file
the unsent draft, it will not be annotated.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-draftfolder \f2+folder\f1" 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nodraftfolder 10
.PD
Specifies the folder in which the draft message is created.
If you do not send the draft, the mail system
will store it in this folder.
.IP
This option is usually set up in your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O.  See
\*Lmh_profile\*O(4) for more information.
If you have this option set up, you can
override it by using the
.B \-nodraftfolder
option.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-draftmessage \f2file-name\f1" 10
Specifies the file in which the draft message is created.
If no absolute pathname is given, the file is assumed to be in
your Mail directory, standardly \*L$HOME/Mail\*O.  If you do not
send the message, it is stored in the named file
until you delete it, or send it at a later date.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-editor\ \f2editorname\f1
Specifies the editor that you want to use to edit your forwarded
message.
.IP
You can also set up an editor in your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O file;
see \*Lmh_profile\*O(4) for more information.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-form\ \f2formfile\f1
Specifies the message header to be used in the draft message.
If this option is present, \*Ldist\*O takes the header of the draft message
from the named file.
If this option is not present, the header is taken from the \*Ldist\*O comps
file in your Mail directory, or failing that,
from the mail system default header.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-inplace 10
.PD 0
.IP \-noinplace 10
.PD
Causes annotation to be done in place, to preserve
links to the annotated message.
This option only works with the
.B \-annotate
option.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-help
Prints a list of the valid options for this command.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-noedit
Suppresses editing of the draft message altogether.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.IP \-template [\f2editorname\f3]
Helps you to construct valid X.400 addresses in message headers.
If you are resending mail over X.400, you can use
.B \-template
to add addresses to the \*LResent-xxx:\*O
header fields of your message.
For each appropriate field, the \*Ltemplate\*O
program first asks you whether you want to create an address in
that field;
then it prompts you for the attributes of an X.400 address.
Finally, the completed addresses are entered in the appropriate fields
of the message form.
You can specify your own choice of editor to use for the template
by using the
.B \-template
\*Veditorname\*O
option.
The default editor for
.B \-template
is \*Lprompter\*O.  If you use one editor regularly, you can specify it in the
\*LTemplate-Editor:\*O
line of your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O.  The \*Ltemplate\*O function
is also available as a separate program. See \*Ltemplate\*O(1) for
more information.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-whatnowproc \f2program\f1" 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nowhatnowproc 10
.PD
Specifies an alternative \*Lwhatnow\*O program.
Normally, \*Ldist\*O invokes the default \*Lwhatnow\*O program.
See \*Lwhatnow\*O(1) for a discussion of available options.
You can specify your own alternative
to the default program using the
.B \-whatnowproc
\*Vprogram\*O
option.
If you do specify your own program, you should not call it \*Lwhatnow\*O.
.IP
You can suppress the \*Lwhatnow\*O
program entirely by using the
.B \-nowhatnowproc
option.
However, as the program normally starts the initial edit, the
.B \-nowhatnowproc
option will prevent you from editing the message.
.\"
.\" Specifies the
.\" \*Lwhatnow\*O
.\" program that is used.
.\" When you exit from the editor,
.\" \*Ldist\*O
.\" invokes the
.\" \*Lwhatnow\*O
.\" program.
.\" See
.\" \*Lwhatnow\*O(1)
.\" for details of the available options.
.\" The invocation of this program can be inhibited by using the
.\" .B \-nowhatnowproc
.\" option.
.\" However the
.\" \*Lwhatnow\*O
.\" program starts the initial edit, hence,
.\" .B \-nowhatnowproc
.\" prevents any edit from occurring.
.\" .IP
.\" If
.\" \*Lwhatnowproc\*O
.\" is
.\" \*Lwhatnow\*O,
.\" then
.\" \*Ldist\*O
.\" uses the built-in
.\" \*Lwhatnow\*O
.\" program; it does not actually run the
.\" \*Lwhatnow\*O
.\" program.
.\" Hence, if you define your own
.\" \*Lwhatnowproc\*O,
.\" do not call it
.\" \*Lwhatnow\*O
.\" since
.\" \*Ldist\*O
.\" will not run it.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.PP
The defaults for \*Ldist\*O are:
.IP
\*V+folder\*O
defaults to the current folder
.br
\*Vmsg\*O
defaults to cur
.br
.B \-noannotate
.br
.B \-nodraftfolder
.br
.B \-noinplace
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ************************************************
.\" COMMENTED OUT - also applies to comp, repl, forw
.ig
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The \*Ldist\*O command does not
rigorously check the message being
distributed for adherence to the transport standard,
but \*Lpost\*O called by \*Lsend\*O does. The \*Lpost\*O program
will not deliver poorly formatted messages,
and \*Ldist\*O will not correct things for you.
..
.\" ************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine your Mail directory (\*L<mh-dir>\*O)
Draft-Folder:+To find the default draft folder
Editor:+To override the default editor
.\"
.\" Template-Editor:+To override the default editor for the template
.\"
fileproc:+Program to refile the message
whatnowproc:+Program to ask the What now? questions
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L/usr/lib/mh/distcomps\*O
The default system template for re-distributed messages.
.TP
\*L<mh\-dir>/distcomps\*O
The user-supplied alternative to the default system template.
.TP
\*L$HOME/\&.mh_profile\*O
The user profile.
.TP
\*L<mh\-dir>/draft\*O
The draft file.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lcomp\*O(1), \*Lforw\*O(1), \*Lrepl\*O(1), \*Lsend\*O(1),
.\" \*Ltemplate\*O(1),
\*Lwhatnow\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
