.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: domainname.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:28:28 $
.\"
.TH domainname 1
.SH NAME
domainname \- display or set the name of the current NIS domain for this system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B domainname
[\|\f2nameofdomain\f1\|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "domainname command"
.iX "domain" "getting name"
.iX "domain" "setting name"
.iX "domain" "defined"
The \*Ldomainname\*O command, when used without an argument,
displays the name of the current domain.
When used with argument, sets the current Network Information Service
(NIS) domain name to the specified domain name.
.PP
A domain is a logical grouping
of networked-connected systems established
for the purpose of sharing a common set of NIS data files.
Domains are only used by NIS.
.PP
The NIS maps for a particular domain are stored in the directory
\*L/var/yp/domainname*O on each NIS server.
Each NIS  map contains a set of keys and associated key values.
For example, in a map called \*Lhosts.byname\*O, the
host names stored there constitute the keys.
The corresponding internet addresses of each host
constitute the associated key values.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lypfiles\*O(4), \*Lypsetup\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
