.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dspcat.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/16 22:42:53 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH dspcat 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ldspcat\*O \- Displays all or part of a message catalog
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ldspcat\*O [\*L-g\*O] \*Vcatalog_name\*O
[\*Vset_number\*O [\*Vmessage_number\*O]]
.sE
.PP
The \*Ldspcat\*O command, part of the OSF/1 Message Facility,
displays a particular message, all of the messages in a
set, or all of the messages in a catalog.
.SH "FLAGS"
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-g\*O"
Formats the output so that it can be used as input
to the \*Lgencat\*O command.  You cannot use the \*Vmessage_number\*O
argument with the \*L-g\*O flag.
.LE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "dspcat command"
.iX "message catalogs" "displaying"
The \*Vcatalog_name\*O variable specifies a file containing a
message catalog.
.\" .zA "defect, 7592, R1.1.2, new info"
If the file is not in the current
directory, \*Ldspcat\*O searches for it in the set of directories
specified by the \*LNLSPATH\*O environment variable.  (For more
information about \*LNLSPATH\*O, see \*Lcatopen\*O(3).)
.\" .zZ "defect, 7592, R1.1.2, new info"
.PP
The \*Vset_number\*O variable specifies
a set in the catalog.  The \*Vmessage_number\*O variable specifies a particular
message in the set.
.PP
.\" .zA "defect, 8404, R1.1.2, corrected description of various output"
If you include all three arguments, \*Ldspcat\*O
displays a particular message. If you do not include \*Vmessage_number\*O,
all the messages in the set are displayed.  If you specify only
\*Vcatalog_name\*O, all the messages in the catalog are displayed.
If you specify either an invalid \*Vmessage_number\*O
or and invalid \*Vset_number\*O, an error message is displayed.
You must include \*Vset_number\*O if you include \*Vmessage_number\*O.
.\" .zZ "defect, 8404, R1.1.2, corrected description of various output"
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
To display message number 2 in set number 1 of \*Ltest.cat\*O, enter:
.PP
.iS
dspcat test.cat 1 2
\*O\c
.iE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands:  \*Ldspmsg\*O(1), \*Lgencat\*O(1), \*Lmkcatdefs\*O(1).
.PP
Functions:  \*Lcatclose\*O(3), \*Lcatgets\*O(3), \*Lcatopen\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
