.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dspmsg.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/16 22:52:27 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH dspmsg 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ldspmsg\*O \- Displays a selected message from a message catalog
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\" .zA "defect, 8236, R1.1.2, reordered arguments to reflect new usage"
.sS
\*Ldspmsg\*O
\*O[\*L\(hys\*O\ \*Vset_number\*O]
\*Vcatalog_name\*O
\*Vmessage_number\*O
\*O[\&'\*Vdefault_message\*O\&']
\*O[\*Vargument\*O\ \&.\&.\&.]
.sE
.\" .zZ "defect, 8236, R1.1.2, reordered arguments to reflect new usage"
.PP
The \*Ldspmsg\*O command, part of the OSF/1 Message Facility,
displays a particular message from a catalog.
.SH "FLAGS"
.PP
.VL 7m
.LI "\*L-s\*O \*Vset_number\*O"
Specifies a set number other than 1.
.LE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.iX "dspmsg command"
.iX "message catalogs" "displaying selected messages from"
The \*Ldspmsg\*O command allows you to pass
up to 10 string arguments for substitution into the message if it
contains either the \*L%s\*O
or the \*L%\*Vn\*L$s\*O \*Lprintf()\*O conversion specifications.
.PP
You must specify the message catalog (\*Vcatalog_name\*O) and the message
(\*Vmessage_number\*O).
The default set number is 1. Specify another set
by using the\*L -s\*O flag followed by the set number.
.PP
.\" .zA "defect, 7592, R1.1.2, new info"
If \*Vcatalog_name\*O is not in the current
directory, \*Ldspcat\*O searches for it in the set of directories
specified by the \*LNLSPATH\*O environment variable.  (For more
information about \*LNLSPATH\*O, see \*Lcatopen\*O(3).)
.\" .zZ "defect, 7592, R1.1.2, new info"
.PP
If \*Ldspmsg\*O cannot find the message, the \*Vdefault_message\*O
is displayed. You must enclose the default message in single quotes
if using the \*L%\*Vn\*L$s\*O notation for message inserts.
If \*Ldspmsg\*O cannot find the message, and you do not specify
a default message, \*Ldspmsg\*O displays nothing.
.PP
Follow the default message with up to 10 arguments to substitute
into the catalog message (or the default message).
.\" Next sentence untrue; commented out for V2.0 as per Tom Woodburn.
.\" Missing arguments for conversion specifications are replaced 
.\" by null strings.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
To display the set number 1, message number 2, of \*Ltest.cat\*O, enter:
.\" .zA "defect, 8236, R1.1.2, reordered arguments to reflect new usage"
.PP
.iS
dspmsg -s 1 test.cat 2 'message not found'
.iE
.\" .zZ "defect, 8236, R1.1.2, reordered arguments to reflect new usage"
.PP
If you have not assigned a message, the default \*LMessage not
found\*O is displayed.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands:  \*Ldspcat\*O(1), \*Lgencat\*O(1), \*Lmkcatdefs\*O(1).
.PP
Functions:  \*Lcatclose\*O(3), \*Lcatgets\*O(3), \*Lcatopen\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
