.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dtifddif.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/12/22 19:06:35 $
.\" 
.TH dtifddif 1
.SH Name
dtifddif \- convert DTIF formatted files to DDIF formatted files
.SH Syntax
.B dtifddif
[\-m \f2message_log\fP] [\-O \f2optionfile\fP] [\-o \f2outputfile\fP] 
[\-p \f2options_line\fP]... 
[\-d \f2extension\fP] [\f2inputfile\fP [\f2outputfile\fP [\f2logfile\fP]]]
.br
.SH Description
.NXR "dtifddif command"
The
.cs
dtifddif
command reads a DTIF (table) formatted file from
.I inputfile
and writes a DDIF formatted file to
.I outputfile.
Since this conversion crosses from the DTIF grammar domain to DDIF, the
converter is also called a
.I domain converter.
To convert from \f2file.dtif\fP to \f2file.ddif\fP, type:
.PP
\f3dtifddif file.dtif file.ddif.\f1
.EE
If you do not supply an input file, or if you supply a
minus sign (\-) as an argument,
.cs
dtifddif
reads the DDIF file from the standard input file.
If you do not supply an output file, 
or if you supply a minus sign (\-) as an argument,
.cs
dtifddif
writes the DDIF file to the standard output file.
.PP
If the DTIF input file is a newer version of the DTIF grammar
than that understood by the converter, data represented by the
new grammar elements is lost.
.PP
A document syntax error in the DTIF input file causes a fatal input
processing error. The conversion stops and no further input processing occurs.
.PP
You can also invoke the
.cs
dtifddif
conversion with the 
.cs
cdoc(1)
command when you use that command and specify a source format (\-s) in the DTIF
domain or a destination format (\-d) in the DDIF domain.
.SH Options
.TP 5
.B \-m \f2message_log\fP
Enables enhanced messaging and logs all messages to \f2message_log\fP or,
if '-' is specified, to \f2standard error\fP in place of the \f2message_log\fP. 
If you do not specify this option, only serious errors are reported.
.TP
.B \-O \f2optionfile\fP
Specifies the name of the options file containing options for this
converter.
.IP "" 10
The options file has a default file type of .cda_options. Each line of the
options file specifies a format name that can optionally be 
followed by \f2_input\fP or \f2_output\fP to 
restrict the option to either an input or output 
converter. The second word is a valid option preceded by one or more spaces, 
tabs, or a slash (/) and can contain uppercase and lowercase letters, numbers, 
dollar signs, and underlines. The case of letters is not significant. If an 
option requires a value, then spaces, tabs, or an equal sign can separate the
option from the value. 
.IP "" 10
You can precede any line by spaces and tabs.
To terminate a line, use
any character other than those used to specify
the format names and options. The syntax and interpretation of
the text that follows the format name is specified by the supplier of the
front and back end converters for the specified format. 
.IP "" 10
To specify several options for the same input or output format, specify one
option on a line. If an invalid option for an input or output format or an
invalid value for an option is specified, the option may be ignored or an
error message may be returned. Each input or output format that supports
processing options specifies any restrictions or special formats required
when specifying options. 
.IP "" 10
By default, any messages that occur during processing of the options file 
are written to \f2standard error\fP.  For those
input and output formats that support a LOG option, messages can be 
directed to a log file or to a common message log.
.TP
.B \-o \f2outputfile\fP
Specifies the name of the output file. Included in the command syntax
for compatibility with the cdoc command.
.TP
.B \-p \f2options_line\fP
Allows options to be specified on the command line and has the same
effect as specifying an options file for this converter. 
You can specify up to 100 options, each preceded by -p.
.TP
.B \-d \f2extension\fP
Allows the specification of a default file extension for compatibility with
other operating systems. 

.SH Converter Processing Options

When converting any table format to any document format,
you can specify the following domain converter 
processing options using a format
name of DTIF_TO_DDIF:
.TP 5
o  COLUMN_TITLE
Displays the column title as contained in the column
attributes, centered at the top of the column.
.TP
o  CURRENT_DATE
Displays the current date and time in the bottom left corner of
the page. The value is formatted according to the document's
specification for a default date and time.
.TP
o  DOCUMENT_DATE
Displays the document date and time, as contained in the
document header, in the top left corner of the page. The value
is formatted according to the document's specification for a
default date and time.
.TP
o  DOCUMENT_TITLE
Displays the document title or titles, as contained in the
document header, centered at the top of the page, one string per line.
.TP
o  PAGE_NUMBER
Displays the current page number in the top right corner of the page.
.TP
o  PAPER_SIZE size
Specifies the size of the paper to be used when formatting the
resulting DDIF output file. Valid values for the size
argument are as follows:
.PP
.RS
.IP Keyword 18
Meaning
.IP A0
841 x 1189 millimeters (33.13 x 46.85 inches)
.IP A1
594 x 841 millimeters (23.40 x 33.13 inches)
.IP A2
420 x 594 millimeters (16.55 x 23.40 inches)
.IP A3
297 x 420 millimeters (11.70 x 16.55 inches)
.IP A4
210 x 297 millimeters (8.27 x 11.70 inches)
.IP A5
148 x 210 millimeters (5.83 x 8.27 inches)
.IP B4
250 x 353 millimeters (9.84 x 13.90 inches)
.IP B5
176 x 250 millimeters (6.93 x 9.84 inches)
.IP C4
229 x 324 millimeters (9.01 x 12.76 inches)
.IP C5
162 x 229 millimeters (6.38 x 9.02 inches)
.IP DL
110 x 220 millimeters (4.33 x 8.66 inches)
.IP 10x13_ENVELOPE
10 x 13 inches (254 x 330 millimeters)
.IP 9x12_ENVELOPE
9 x 12 inches (229 x 305 millimeters)
.IP BUSINESS_ENVELOPE
4.13 x 9.5 inches (105 x 241 millimeters)
.IP EXECUTIVE
7.5 x 10 inches (191 x 254 millimeters)
.IP A
8.5 x 11 inches (216 x 279 millimeters)
.IP B
11 x 17 inches (279 x 432 millimeters)
.IP C
17 x 22 inches (432 x 559 millimeters)
.IP D
22 x 34 inches (559 x 864 millimeters)
.IP E
34 x 44 inches (864 x 1118 millimeters)
.IP LEDGER
11 x 17 inches (279 x 432 millimeters)
.IP LEGAL
8.5 x 14 inches (216 x 356 millimeters)
.IP LETTER
8.5 x 11 inches (216 x 279 millimeters)
.IP LP
13.7 x 11 inches (348 x 279 millimeters)
.IP VT
8 x 5 inches (203 x 127 millimeters)
.RE
.PP
The A paper size (8.5 x 11 inches) is the default.
You can specify the following units of measurement:
\f2in\fP for inches (default), \f2cm\fP for centimeters,
\f2mm\fP for millimeters, \f2po\fP or \f2pt\fP for points.
.TP
o  PAPER_HEIGHT height
Specifies a paper height other than one of the predefined values
provided. The default paper height is 11 inches.
You can specify the following units of measurement:
\f2in\fP for inches (default), \f2cm\fP for centimeters,
\f2mm\fP for millimeters, \f2po\fP or \f2pt\fP for points.
.TP
o  PAPER_WIDTH width
Specifies a paper width other than one of the predefined values
provided. The default paper width is 8.5 inches.
You can specify the following units of measurement:
\f2in\fP for inches (default), \f2cm\fP for centimeters,
\f2mm\fP for millimeters, \f2po\fP or \f2pt\fP for points.
.TP
o  PAPER_TOP_MARGIN top-margin
Specifies the height of the margin provided at the top of the
page. The default value is 0.25 inch.
You can specify the following units of measurement:
\f2in\fP for inches (default), \f2cm\fP for centimeters,
\f2mm\fP for millimeters, \f2po\fP or \f2pt\fP for points.
.TP
o  PAPER_BOTTOM_MARGIN bottom-margin
of the margin provided at the bottom of the
page. The default value is 0.25 inch.
You can specify the following units of measurement:
\f2in\fP for inches (default), \f2cm\fP for centimeters,
\f2mm\fP for millimeters, \f2po\fP or \f2pt\fP for points.
.TP
o  PAPER_LEFT_MARGIN left-margin
Specifies the width of the margin provided on the left-hand
side of the page. The default value is 0.25 inch.
You can specify the following units of measurement:
\f2in\fP for inches (default), \f2cm\fP for centimeters,
\f2mm\fP for millimeters, \f2po\fP or \f2pt\fP for points.
.TP
o  PAPER_RIGHT_MARGIN right-margin
Specifies the width of the margin provided on the right-hand
side of the page. The default value is 0.25 inch.
You can specify the following units of measurement:
\f2in\fP for inches (default), \f2cm\fP for centimeters,
\f2mm\fP for millimeters, \f2po\fP or \f2pt\fP for points.
.TP
o  PAPER_ORIENTATION orientation
Specifies the paper orientation to be used in the output file.
The valid values for the orientation argument
are:
.PP
.RS
.IP Keyword 12
Meaning
.IP PORTRAIT
The page is oriented so that the larger dimension
is parallel to the vertical axis.
.IP LANDSCAPE
The page is oriented so that the larger dimension
is parallel to the horizontal axis.
.RE
.PP
.IP "" 5
The default is PORTRAIT.
.SH See Also
cdoc(1), dtifanls(1),
cda(4), cda_msg(4),
ddif(4), dtif(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
