.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dtifanls.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/12/22 18:08:37 $
.\" 
.TH dtifanls 1
.SH Name
dtifanls \- convert DTIF formatted files to CDA analysis formatted files
.SH Syntax
.B dtifanls
[\-m \f2message_log\fP] 
[\-O \f2optionfile\fP] 
[\-o \f2outputfile\fP] 
[\-p \f2options_line\fP]... [\-d \f2extension\fP] 
[\f2inputfile\fP [\f2outputfile\fP [\f2logfile\fP]]]
.br
.SH Description
.NXR "dtifanls command"
The
.cs
dtifanls
command reads a DTIF (table) formatted file from
\f2inputfile\fP
and writes a CDA analysis file to
\f2outputfile\fP.
To convert from \f2file.dtif\fP to \f2file.cda_analysis\fP, type:
.PP
\f3dtifanls file.dtif file.cda_analysis.\f1
.PP
If you do not supply an input file, or if you supply a
minus sign (\-) as an argument,
.cs
dtifanls
reads the DDIF file from the standard input file.
If you do not supply an output file, 
or if you supply a minus sign (\-) as an argument,
.cs
dtifanls
writes the CDA analysis file to standard output.
You can also invoke the 
.cs
dtifanls
conversion with the 
.cs
cdoc(1)
command when you use that command and specify the options
.B \-s \f2dtif\fP
and 
.B \-d \f2analysis\fP.
.cs
dtifanls
produces an analysis of the CDA in-memory structure in
the form of text output showing the named objects and values stored
in the document. This is useful for debugging DTIF application programs.
.PP
If the DTIF input file is a newer version of the DTIF grammar
than that understood by the converter, data represented by the
new grammar elements is lost.
To resolve any external references within the DTIF input file,
specify -p \f2INHERIT\fP.
.PP
Application end users use an analysis output file to determine whether  an
input file contains references of links to multiple "subfiles".  You must
copy each subfile separately across a network because subfiles are not
automatically included when an input file is transferred across a network,
unless the input file is transferred using DOTS.
.PP
A document syntax error in the DTIF input file causes a fatal input 
processing error. The conversion stops and no further input 
processing occurs.
.SH Options
.TP 5
.B 
.B \-m \f2message_log\fP
Enables enhanced messaging and logs all messages to \f2message_log\fP or,
if '-' is specified, to \f2standard error\fP in place of the \f2message_log\fP. 
If you do not specify this option, only serious errors are reported.
.TP
.B \-O \f2optionfile\fP
Specifies the name of the options file containing processing options for this
converter.
.IP "" 10
The options file has a default file type of .cda_options. Each line of the
options file specifies a format name that can optionally be 
followed by \f2_input\fP or \f2_output\fP to 
restrict the option to either an input or output 
converter. The second word is a valid option preceded by one or more spaces, 
tabs, or a slash (/) and can contain uppercase and lowercase letters, numbers, 
dollar signs, and underlines. The case of letters is not significant. If an 
option requires a value, then spaces, tabs, or an equal sign can separate the
option from the value. 
.IP "" 10
You can precede any line by spaces and tabs.
To terminate a line, use
any character other than those used to specify
the format names and options. The syntax and interpretation of
the text that follows the format name is specified by the supplier of the
front and back end converters for the specified format. 
.IP "" 10
To specify several options for the same input or output format, specify one
option on a line. If an invalid option for an input or output format or an
invalid value for an option is specified, the option may be ignored or an
error message may be returned. Each input or output format that supports
processing options specifies any restrictions or special formats required
when specifying options. 
.IP "" 10
By default, any messages that occur during processing of the options file 
are written to \f2standard error\fP.  For those
input and output formats that support a LOG option, messages can be 
directed to a log file or to a common message log.
.TP
.B \-o \f2outputfile\fP
Specifies the name of the output file. Included in the command syntax
for compatibility with the 
.cs
cdoc 
command.
.TP
.B \-p \f2options_line\fP
Allows options to be specified on the command line and has the same
effect as specifying an options file for this converter. Up to 100
options can be specified, each preceded by -p.
.TP
.B \-d \f2extension\fP
Allows the specification of a default file extension
that is compatible with
other operating systems. 
.SH Converter Processing Options
When you are converting any table format to any document format,
you can specify the following domain converter 
processing options using a format
name of DTIF_TO_DDIF:
.TP 5
o TRANSLATE_BYTE_STRINGS
Overrides the default. For data of type BYTE STRING, the Analysis output
does not display the hexadecimal translation if all the characters in
the byte string are printable characters (hex values 20 through 7E). 
You can override this feature by supplying the TRANSLATE_BYTE_STRINGS option.
.TP
o IMAGE_DATA
Overrides the default. For the special case of byte string data for item
DDIF_IDU_PLANE_DATA (a bitmapped image), 
the following comment appears on the display:
.IP
\f3! *** Bit-mapped data not displayed here ***\f1
.PP
To retain the hexadecimal display, supply the IMAGE_DATA option. 
There is no translation into ASCII.
.TP
o INHERITANCE
.cs
dtifanls
supports an inheritance processing option, which specifies
that the Analysis is shown with attribute inheritance enabled.
Inherited attributes are marked by "[default]" in the output.
.SH See Also
cdoc(1), ctod(1), ddifanls(1), dtifddif(1), dtoc(1), 
cda(4), cda_msg(4), ddis(4), dots(4), dtif(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
