.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dtoc.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/09/01 08:44:35 $
.\" 
.TH dtoc 1
.SH Name
dtoc \- unpacks a DOTS file after transfer of DDIF or DTIF documents with links
.SH Syntax
.B dtoc
[
.B \-f
] [
.B \-p
] [[
.I object.dots 
] 
.I directory
]
.SH Description
.NXR "dtoc command"
The
.cs
dtoc
command unpacks the contents of a DOTS (Data Object Transport Syntax)
file or standard input after transfer of the DOTS file from one location to
another, usually via mail. The contents of the DOTS file typically are a
DDIF compound document or DTIF file and their externally linked subfiles.
.PP
The
.I object.dots
input can be either a file name or a minus sign (\-) for
\f2standard input\fP.  If you specify a minus sign (\-), or if no
file name is present, the
.cs
dtoc
command reads from the standard input.
If you specify
.I directory,
the content of the DOTS file is unpacked and
stored in the specified directory.  If you do not specify
.I directory,
the content of the DOTS file is unpacked into the current
directory.  The names of the files created are written to standard output.
.PP
If the
.cs
dtoc
command encounters duplicate file or
directory names while unpacking the DOTS file, a
new output file is generated with a sequential number appended to its
name.  For example, if one of the DOTS subfiles has the same name as the
existing file
.cs
foo.ddif,
the
.cs
dtoc
command unpacks and names the subfile
.cs
foo.ddif.1.
.PP
References to externally linked subfiles and their file names are updated
and modified during unpacking, particularly if the DOTS file originated on
a non-UNIX system. 
.SH Options
.TP 5
.B \-f
Suppresses output of unpacked file names.
.TP 
.B \-p
Causes only the name of the primary output file to be written to standard output.
.SH Implementation
.sp
.SS Standard Input
If a minus sign (\-) is specified, or if no parameters are specified,
.cs
dtoc
reads from
.I standard input
until it encounters a
.CT D
or
.B EOF
(end of file), which can be specified no more than once.  The
contents of
.I standard input
must conform to the syntax of a single DOTS file.
.PP
.SS Reconstitution of Names
DDIF or DTIF file names and the file names of referenced subfiles may be
modified as objects are extracted or unpacked.  If names are modified,
the references in the unpacked DDIF or DTIF are updated.  The handling of
files names depends in part on the name-type of the object, as follows:
.RS
.PP
.B UNIX file names
.IP
Names are unmodified, except that any path or directory is removed since
the primary document and its references are unpacked into the same directory. A
period and unique number are applied to any file name that would duplicate
an existing file.
.PP
.B VMS file names
.IP
The set of rules is as follows:
.RS
.IP
Convert uppercase letters to lowercase.
.IP
Convert dollar signs ($) to underscores (_).
.IP
Ignore disk volume and directory specifications, if they are present,
because they are not likely to be meaningful on UNIX systems.
.IP
Append duplicate file names with a period and a unique number.
.IP
All other characters are unmodified.
.RE
.RE
.SH Restrictions
A DOTS file is expected to contain only a single primary DDIF or DTIF
object in this release.  Any subsequent objects in the DOTS file are
external references of the primary object.
.PP
.SH Diagnostics
If all files were unpacked successfully, the exit status is 0. If any of
the files could not be unpacked, the exit status is 1.
Consult your \f2standard error\fP location for a description of why
the files could not be unpacked.
.PP
If a nonexistent target directory is specified, the
.cs
dtoc
command returns an error status.
.SH See Also 
ctod(1), ddifanls(1), dtifanls(1), cda(4), ddif(4), dtif(4), dots(4),
ddis(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
