.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: du.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/01 19:04:23 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH du 1
.SH NAME
\*Ldu\*O \- Displays a summary of disk usage
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ldu\*O
\*O[\*L-a
|
\*L-s\*O]
\*O[\*L-klrx\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O
\&...]
\*O[\*Vdirectory\*O
\&...]
.sE
.PP
The \*Ldu\*O command gives the number of blocks in all
directories (listed recursively) within each specified \*Vdirectory\*O.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Displays disk use for each file.  Without \*L-a\*O, \*Ldu\*O does not report
on files.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Displays only the grand total for each of the specified directories, or for a
file if used with \*L-a\*O.
.LI "\*L-k\*O"
Displays block count in kilobytes instead of multiples of 512 bytes.
.LI "\*L-l\*O"
Allocates blocks, in files with multiple links, evenly among the links.
By default, a file with two or more links is counted only once.
.LI "\*L-r\*O"
Displays an error message when \*Ldu\*O encounters an inaccessible directory,
or an inaccessible file when used with \*L-a\*O.
.LI "\*L-x\*O"
Displays information about only the specified file system.  For example, if
you want to display information about only the root file system, specify
both the \*L\-x\*O flag and the root file system (\*L/\*O).
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "du command"
.iX "disk" "usage summary"
.iX "summary" "disk usage"
.iX "disk" "space"
When the \*L-a\*O flag is specified, \*Ldu\*O reports the number of
blocks in individual files.  The block count includes the indirect blocks
of each file and is in 512-byte units, independent of the cluster
size used by the system.  If no file or directory name is provided,
the \*Ldu\*O command uses the current directory.
.SH NOTES
.PP
If too many files are distinctly linked, \*Ldu\*O counts the
excess files more than once.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To display the disk usage of a directory tree and each of its
subtrees, enter:
.iS
du  /u/fran
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The previous command displays the number of disk blocks in the
\*L/u/fran\*O directory and each of its subdirectories.
.PP
To display the disk usage of each file, enter:
.iS
du  -a  /u/fran
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The previous command
displays the number of disk blocks contained in each file and
subdirectory of \*L/u/fran\*O.
The number beside a directory is the disk usage of that directory tree.
The number beside a regular file is the disk usage of that file alone.
.PP
To display only the total disk usage of a directory tree, enter:
.iS
du  -rs  /u/fran
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The previous command
displays only the sum total disk usage of \*L/u/fran\*O
and the files it contains (\*L-s\*O).
The \*L-r\*O flag tells \*Ldu\*O to display an error message if
it cannot read a file or directory.
.PP
To restrict the disk usage information to the root (\*L/\*O) file system,
enter:
.iS
du  -x  /
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The previous command displays information only about the root file system
and does not display information about the file systems located under the
root file system.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Ldf\*O(1), \*Lquot\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
