.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dxbook.1X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 20:12:13 $
.\" 
.\" Edited by EB on 251-Jun-1992; Removed stray BKRPlus ref.
.\" Created by EB on 21-Apr-1992; Spun off from DXBOOKPLUS, removed 
.\"       BKRPlus info 
.TH dxbook 1X
.SH NAME
\*Ldxbook\*O \- Invokes Bookreader.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ldxbook\*O [\*Vflags\*O ] [ \*Vbookshelf book\*O [ \*Vsection\*O ] ]
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vbookshelf\*O"
Specifies a bookshelf file.  If you do not include this argument, Bookreader
uses the file specified by the \*LDECW_BOOKSHELF\*O environment variable.
If \*LDECW_BOOKSHELF\*O is not defined, Bookreader uses the default
bookshelf file, \*L/usr/lib/dxbook/library.decw_bookshelf\*O.
.LI "\*Vbook\*O"
If the argument specified is a book file, Bookreader first opens
the bookshelf file as if no argument were specified, but the Library
window starts up as an icon.  Bookreader then opens the specified book.
.LI "\*Vsection\*O"
Specifies the symbol name for a Topic to be opened in the specified book
file.  Section is a symbolic name that the book's author has defined to be
associated with a section title.  This is useful for books that you
have written or whose source files you have access to.
.LE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-d \*Vdispname\*O"
Specifies the display screen where \*Ldxbook\*O displays its windows.
If the \*Ldisplay\*O flag is not specified, \*Ldxbook\*O uses the display
screen specified by the \*LDISPLAY\*O environment variable.
The \*Ldisplay\*O flag has the format \*Vhostname\*O:\*Vnumber\*O.\*Vnumber\*O.
Using two colons (::) instead of one (:) causes DECnet to be used
for transport.  The setting :0.0 is the default.
For more information, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.LI "\*L\-display \*Vdispname\*O"
This flag is the same as the \*L\-d\*O flag.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "dxbook"
.iX "Bookreader"
.iX "online documentation"
Bookreader lets you read online documentation.
.PP
The \*Ldxbook\*O command runs Bookreader.  You can also run Bookreader
by selecting the \*LBookreader\*O item from the \*LApplications\*O
menu of the \*LSession Manager\*O.
.PP
Bookreader has three windows: Library window, Navigation
window, and Topic window.  The Library window lists the libraries, bookshelves
and books available to read.  The Navigation window displays a book's
table of contents, index, and other directories such as tables and
examples.  The Topic window displays the contents of the book section you have
selected to read.
.PP
A library is a group of bookshelves and books.
A bookshelf is a group of related books and possibly other bookshelves.
To view a book that is in a shelf,
you first open the shelf by double clicking MB1 on the shelf title in the
Library window.
When you open a shelf, a list of the books and bookshelves in that shelf
appears in the Library window.
.PP
You open a book by double clicking MB1 on the book title in the Library
window.  The table of contents for that book appears in the Navigation window.
.PP
You can move through a book's contents in the Topic window using the scroll
bar and the \*LGo Back\*O, \*LTopic\*O, and \*LScreen\*O buttons.
.PP
In the Topic window, a reference in the text to a figure, a table, or an
example is a \*Vhotspot\*O.  That is, if you position the pointer at the
reference and double click MB1, the figure, table, or example is displayed in a
separate window.  A figure, table, or example can also be displayed by
selecting it from the book's table of contents in the Navigation window.
.PP
Cross-references to other sections of text are also hotspots.
Double click on a reference to another section to display
the new section in the Topic window.
.PP
Hotspots are normally highlighted only when you move the pointer over the
reference.  You can cause hotspots to be continuously highlighted by choosing
the Hotspots menu item from the Topic window View menu.
.SS Specifying Libraries
When you first run Bookreader, the list of bookshelves and books
that appears in the Library window is the top-level library.  A
special file called the bookshelf file contains an entry for
each bookshelf and book that appears in the top-level library.
You can specify the bookshelf file explicitly, using the \*Vbookshelf\*O
argument on the command line.  If the \*Vbookshelf\*O argument is not
included or does not contain an explicit pathname specification,
Bookreader uses the environment variables \*LDECW_BOOK\*O and
\*LDECW_BOOKSHELF\*O to locate the bookshelf file.
.VL 4m
.LI "DECW_BOOK"
Specifies the search path for book and bookshelf files.  Separate
multiple pathnames with spaces.  If \*LDECW_BOOK\*O
is not set and no explicit pathname is specified
on the command line, Bookreader looks for book and bookshelf files in
\*L/usr/lib/dxbook\*O.
.LI "DECW_BOOKSHELF"
Specifies the bookshelf file.  If \*LDECW_BOOKSHELF\*O is not set and the
\*Vbookshelf\*O argument is not included on the command line, Bookreader
looks for a bookshelf file named \*Llibrary.decw_bookshelf\*O.
.IP
If \*LDECW_BOOKSHELF\*O is not set, but \*LDECW_BOOK\*O is, Bookreader
looks for bookshelf files named \*Llibrary.decw_bookshelf\*O
using the search path specified by \*LDECW_BOOK\*O.
.LE
.PP
The environment variables allow you to have Bookreader recognize additional
books or bookshelf files. You can store bookshelf files and their
associated book files in different directories, and set the environment
variable \*LDECW_BOOK\*O to specify all the pathnames.  For example, you
have the default bookshelf and books in \*L/usr/lib/dxbook\*O, and another
bookshelf with its books in \*L/usr/local/lib/localbooks\*O.
You set \*LDECW_BOOK\*O to specify both pathnames:
.PP
.iS
\*Lsetenv DECW_BOOK ""/usr/lib/dxbook /usr/local/lib/localbooks""\*O
.iE
.PP
All titles appear in the Library window when you run Bookreader.
.SH X DEFAULTS
.PP
The \*Ldxbook\*O application reads the \*L\&.Xdefaults\*O file during startup
and uses the appropriate resource specification to
customize the appearance or characteristics of its displayed \*Ldxbook\*O
window.  The format for a resource specification in the \*L\&.Xdefaults\*O
file is:
.PP
.sS
[\*Vname\*L*\*O]\*Vresource\*L:  \*Vvalue\*O
.sE
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Specifies the application name or the name string that restricts the
resource assignment to that application or to a component of an
application.  If this argument is not specified, the resource assignment is
globally available to all X applications.
.LI "\*Vresource\*O"
Specifies the resource.
.LI "\*Vvalue\*O"
Specifies the value that is to be assigned to the resource.
.LE
.PP
For more information, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.PP
Because each toolkit-based application can consist of a combination of
widgets (for example, push buttons and a scroll bar), you can form the name
string by adding widget class and name identifiers to the string.  For
further information about adding class and name identifiers, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.PP
For \*Ldxbook\*O, the application class identifier is \*LDXBookreader\*O
and the application name identifier is \*Ldxbook\*O.
.PP
Bookreader has three class names:
.VL 4m
.LI "BookreaderLibrary"
Specifies resources for the Library window.
.LI "BookreaderNavigation"
Specifies resources for the Navigation window.
.LI "BookreaderTopic"
Specifies resources for the Topic window.
.LE
.PP
The following resources are available for \*Ldxbook\*O:
.VL 4m
.LI "background"
Specifies the Navigation window background color. Use only with the
\*LBookreaderNavigation\*O name identifier.  The default is white.
.LI "foreground"
Specifies the Navigation and Topic window foreground color.  Use only with the
\*LBookreaderNavigation\*O and \*LBookreaderTopic\*O name identifiers.
The default is black.
.LI "x"
Specifies the x coordinate for the top left corner of the specified
Bookreader window.  The defaults are 3 for the Library and Navigation
windows and 408 for the Topic window.
.LI "y"
Specifies the y coordinate for the top left corner of the specified
Bookreader window.  The defaults are 25 for the Library window, 80 for
the Navigation window, and 75 for the Topic window.
.LI "mm_width"
Specifies the width in millimeters of the specified Bookreader window.
The defaults are 98 for the Library window, 101 for the Navigation window,
and 159 for the Topic window.
.LI "mm_height"
Specifies the height in millimeters of the specified Bookreader window.
The defaults are 100 for the Library window, 145 for the Navigation window,
and 178 for the Topic window.
.LI "initialState"
Specifies whether Bookreader starts up with the Library window displayed,
or starts up as an icon.  Setting the initial state to 3 causes Bookreader
to start up as an icon.  The default is 3.
.LI "shelf_to_open_on_startup"
Specifies a top level shelf to expand when opening the Library window at
startup.  The default is the first top level shelf.  Last and none can also
be specified.
.LI "x_offset"
Specifies the number of pixels to offset the x coordinate of subsequent
Navigation windows when more than one is open.  Use only with the
\*LBookreaderNavigation\*O and \*LBookreaderTopic\*O name identifiers.
The defaults are 0 for the Navigation window and 35 for the Topic window.
.LI "y_offset"
Specifies the number of pixels to offset the y coordinate of subsequent
windows when more than one is open.  Use only with the
\*LBookreaderNavigation\*O and \*LBookreaderTopic\*O name identifiers.
The default is 35.
.LI "max_default_topic_width"
Specifies the maximum default Topic window width.  Use only with the
\*LBookreaderTopic\*O name identifier.  The default is 765.
.LI "max_default_topic_height"
Specifies the maximum default Topic window height.  Use only with the
\*LBookreaderTopic\*O name identifier.  The default is 645.
.LI "show_hot_spots"
Specifies if hotspots are turned on by default.  Use only with the
\*LBookreaderTopic\*O name identifier.  The default is false.
.LI "show_extensions"
Specifies if extensions are turned on by default.  Use only with the
\*LBookreaderTopic\*O name identifier.  The default is true.
.LE
.PP
Bookreader does not save any of its resources, so it is safe to modify
all of them locally.
.PP
In all cases, \*L.mm_width\*O  and \*L.mm_height\*O are specified in
millimeters.  The \*L.x_offset\*O and \*L.y_offset\*O specify the
relative placement of subsequent instances of the same type of window.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To change the foreground color of the Bookreader windows, add the
following entry to your \*L\&.Xdefaults\*O file:
.IP
.iS
\*Ldxbook*foreground:  yellow\*O
.iE
.LI
To cause Bookreader to always start up as an icon, add this entry to your
\*L\&.Xdefaults\*O file:
.IP
.iS
\*L*BookreaderLibrary.initialState: 3\*O
.iE
.LI
To reposition the Library window to the bottom right corner of your screen,
add this entry to your \*L\&.Xdefaults\*O file:
.IP
.iS
\*Ldxbook.BookreaderLibrary.x:   -0\*O
\*Ldxbook.BookreaderLibrary.y:   -0\*O
.iE
.LI
To implement tear-off menus in each of the Bookreader windows,
add these entries to your
\*L\&.Xdefaults\*O file:
.IP
.iS
\*L*BookreaderLibrary*tearOffModel: XMTEAR_OFF_ENABLED\*O
\*L*BookreaderNavigation*tearOffModel: XMTEAR_OFF_ENABLED\*O
\*L*BookreaderTopic*tearOffModel: XMTEAR_OFF_ENABLED\*O
.iE
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L/usr/bin/X11/dxbook\*O"
Bookreader binary
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/dxbook/library.decw_bookshelf\*O"
Default bookshelf
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Bookreader Online Help
.PP
\*VUsing Bookreader\*O
.PP
To use Bookreader online help, choose an item from the Help menu.
The \*VUsing Bookreader\*O document is available in the default bookshelf.
.\" All books are available online in the default bookshelf.
.\".PP
.\"BookreaderPlus is an enhanced version of Bookreader that you can purchase. 
.\"It offers ASCII text and PostScript(TM) printing, searching for matching 
.\"strings, copying text from the Topic window, and a character cell 
.\"interface. For more information, see 
.\".MS dxbookplus 1X .
.EQ
delim off
.EN
