.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dxcardfiler.1X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 20:12:33 $
.\" 
.TH dxcardfiler 1X
.SH NAME
\*Ldxcardfiler\*O \- DECwindows interface to the cardfiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ldxcardfiler\*O [ \*Vflags\*O ]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-bd \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the window's border (color displays only).
This overrides the system default defined in the Session Manager's Customize
Window dialog box.
.LI "\*L\-bg \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the window's background (color displays only).
This overrides the system default defined in the Session Manager's Customize
Window dialog box.
.LI "\*L\-d \*Vdispname\*O"
Specifies the display screen where \*Ldxcardfiler\*O displays its
window.  If the display option is not specified, \*Ldxcardfiler\*O uses
the display screen specified by your DISPLAY environment variable.  The
display option has the format \*Vhostname:number\*O.  Using two colons
(::) instead of one (:) indicates that DECnet is to be used for
transport.  The default is :0.  For more information, see
\*LX\*O(1X).
.LI "\*L\-display \*Vdispname\*O"
This option is the same as the \*L\-d\*O option.
.LI "\*L\-fg \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the text (color displays only).  The default is black.
.LI "\*L\-fn \*Vfont\*O"
Specifies the font for all windows except the index list box.  The default
font is menu12.  The default is 6x10.
.LI "\*L\-geometry\*O"
Specifies the width, length, and location of the \*Ldxcardfiler\*O window.
If the geometry option is not specified, \*Ldxcardfiler\*O uses default values.
The geometry option has the format
[\*Vwidth\*Lx\*Vlength\*O][{+-}\*Vx\*O{+-}\*Vy\*O].
For more information about the screen coordinate system, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "Cardfiler"
.iX "Index cards" "in DECwindows"
.iX "DECwindows cardfiler"
.iX "DECwindows Interface" "cardfiler"
The \*Ldxcardfiler\*O command displays an Index window that provides
access to an electronic version of a set of 3x5 index cards.  You can add,
delete, rename, duplicate, save, read, search, and print these cards.
By organizing your index cards into sets, called card files, you can keep
one group of cards separate from another group.
.PP
The cards, which can hold 4000 characters of text and 64K bits of DDIF
image, will appear on your screen to the right of the Index window.
.PP
In addition, the \*Ldxcardfiler\*O Index window contains a
Help menu that, when selected, displays an appropriate help message.
.SH INDEX WINDOW
.PP
The index window lists the names of the current cards.  (You can open
new or previously selected cards by choosing Open... from the File
menu.)  To select and display a card, place the pointer on the name of the
card and double-click MB1 (the left button unless you have redefined it).
You can also search for specific cards by selecting the card window
and choosing the search menu.
Once you select a card, you can  manipulate it by using the items
contained in the Card window menus.
.PP
The index window contains the following menus:
.PP
.oS
File
Link
Search
Card
Help
.oE
.SS File Menu
The File menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Open..."
Opens an existing card file that you specify.  If the specified card
file does not exist, \*Ldxcardfiler\*O asks if you want to open a new
database.  If you confirm, \*Ldxcardfiler\*O opens a new Index window.
You can begin adding cards.  If you try to open
a card file without first saving any changes to a previously opened file,
a dialog box appears asking you whether you want to save your changes.
.LI "Merge..."
Merges the contents of the current card file with another, resulting in a
card file that combines and sorts the contents of both files.
The card file whose contents are merged with the current card file
remains unchanged.
.LI "Save"
Saves the current card file.  If a name has been specified previously,
\*Ldxcardfiler\*O uses that name.  If a name has not been specified previously,
\*Ldxcardfiler\*O prompts for a new name.
.LI "Save As..."
Saves the current card file under a name that you specify.
.LI "Print"
Prints a representation of all cards in the index to the default printer.
You can change the default printer by means of the Print... option.
.LI "Print..."
Prints the current card file to a device you specify.
.LI "Save Geometry"
Saves the cardfiler's size and position to use the next time you run the
cardfiler.
.LI "Restore System Settings"
Restores the use of system defaults for the cardfiler's size and position.
.LI "Exit"
Closes the \*Ldxcardfiler\*O window.
If you have not saved any changes or additions to the current file, a dialog
box appears asking whether you want to save your changes.
.LE
.SS Link Menu
The Link Menu contains the following menu items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Go To"
Iconifies the current application window and invokes
the appropriate application to display the linked information.
.LI "Visit"
Invokes the appropriate application to display the linked
information, but keeps the current application window open.
Input focus remains in the current application window.
.LI "Step Forward"
Moves to the next step in the currently active navigation path.
.LI "Show Links"
Displays information about the links for the selected object and lets
you edit certain link information.
.LI "Show History"
Shows the history of your navigation operations.
.LI "Go Back"
Reverses the most recent Visit or Go To operation.
Go Back does not delete or otherwise affect existing links.
.LI "Start Link"
Specifies the source of a link. Select a linkable object and
then choose Start Link in the Link menu of the hyperapplication.
.LI "Complete Link"
Completes the link using LinkWorks default values. Select a linkable object
to become the target of the link, and then choose Complete Link in the
Link menu of the hyperapplication.
.LI "Complete Link..."
Displays a dialog box where you can edit information about the link,
and completes the link when you click on OK. Select a linkable object
to become the target of the link, and then choose Complete Link... in the
Link menu of the hyperapplication.
.LI "Turn Highlight On/Off"
Specifies that the highlighting of linked objects be enabled (on) or disabled
(off).  This item says Turn Highlight On if highlighting is currently disabled,
and it says Turn Highlight Off if highlighting is currently enabled.
.LI "Highlight..."
Allows you to enable or disable highlighting and to specify which types
of linkable objects are highlighted when highlighting is enabled.
.LE
.SS Search Menu
The Search menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Search Index..."
Searches the index topics for a text string.  Because \*Ldxcardfiler\*O
treats spaces as text, you can search for two or more words.
A dialog box appears that prompts for the text string.  Then, \*Ldxcardfiler\*O
searches the topics of all index cards in the file and
displays the first card in your file containing the text string.
.LI "Search Card..."
Searches the contents of each card in the file for a text string.
A dialog box appears that prompts for the text string.  Then, \*Ldxcardfiler\*O
searches all index cards in the file and displays the first card in
your file containing the text string.
.LI "Find Next"
Searches for the next occurrence of the searched for string.
.LE
.SS Card Menu
The Card menu contains the following item:
.VL 4m
.LI "Create Card..."
Opens an empty card in a Card window and displays a dialog box that
prompts for the card name.  After you type the card name,
enter any information belonging on the index card in the Card window.
.LI "Help"
On Context gives you on-line help about the File, Link, Search, and Card menus.
On Window gives you on-line help about the cardfile window and the card window.
On Help gives a brief description on using the Help menu.
On Version gives you software version and trademark information.
.LE
.SS Card Window
A Card window contains a Text window where the body of the card can
be created and edited.  The Card window also contains buttons that allow
you to move to the next or the previous cards.  For more information about
the editing commands that can be used in the Text window, see \*LX\*O(1X).
The name of the card displayed is listed in the title bar of the Card window.
A Card window contains the following menus:
.PP
.oS
File
Edit
Search
Card
Help
Previous
Next
.oE
.SS File Menu
The File menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Include Image"
Includes into a card an image from a DDIF image file, such as one created with
\*Ldxprint\*O.
.LI "Print"
Prints a representation of a specified card in the index to a device
or DDIF file.  If a device has been specified previously, \*Ldxcardfiler\*O
uses that device.  If a name has not been specified previously,
\*Ldxcardfiler\*O prompts for a name.
.LI "Print..."
Prints the current card to a device you specify.
.LI "Close"
Closes the Card window.
.LE
.SS Edit Menu
The Edit menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Undo"
Undoes the last cut, copy, paste, or undo operation.
.LI "Cut"
Cuts the selected text or image onto the clipboard.
.LI "Paste"
Pastes the contents of the clipboard at the cursor if it is text
or into the image region if it is an image.
.LI "Copy"
Copies the selected text or image from the clipboard.
.LI "Select Graphic"
Select the image part of the card for Cut or Copy.
.LI "Deselect Graphic"
Deselect the selected image part of the card.
.LE
.SS Search Menu
The Search menu allows you to search the stack of cards for a text string.
.VL 4m
.LI "Search Index..."
Searches the index topics for a text string.  Because \*Ldxcardfiler\*O
treats spaces as text, you can search for two or more words.
A dialog box appears that prompts for the text string.  Then,
\*Ldxcardfiler\*O searches the topics of all index cards in the file and
displays the first card in your file containing the text string.
.LI "Search Card..."
Searches the contents of each card in the file for a text string.
A dialog box appears that prompts for the text string.  Then, \*Ldxcardfiler\*O
searches all index cards in the file and displays the first card in
your file containing the text string.
.LI "Find Next"
Searches for the next occurrence of the searched for string.
.LE
.SS Card Menu
The Card menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Create Card..."
Opens an empty card in a Card window and displays a dialog box that
prompts for the card name.  After you type the card name,
type any information belonging on the index card in the Card window.
.LI "Duplicate"
Duplicates the currently selected card.
.LI "Rename..."
Displays a dialog box that prompts for the new name under which to index
the card.
.LI "Delete"
Deletes the current card.
.LI "Undelete"
Restores the last deleted card.
.LI "Next"
Displays the next card in the Card window.
.LI "Previous"
Displays the previous card in the Card window.
.LI "Restore"
Restores the card to its original unedited state.
.LE
.SS Previous Button
The Previous button lets you view the previous card.
Hold down the button to search quickly through the stack of cards.
.SS Next Button
The Next button lets you view the next card.  Hold down the
button to search quickly through the stack of cards.
.SH X DEFAULTS
.PP
The \*Ldxcardfiler\*O application uses the values in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O
file when you logged in and uses the appropriate resource specification
to customize the appearance of the \*Ldxcardfiler\*O window.
The format for a resource specification in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O file is:
.PP
.sS
[\*Vname\*L*\*O]\*Vresource\*L:  \*Vvalue\*O
.sE
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Specifies the application name or the name string that restricts the
resource assignment to that application or to a component of an application.
If this argument is not specified, the resource assignment is globally
available to all X applications.
.LI "\*Vresource\*O"
Specifies the resource.
.LI "\*Vvalue\*O"
Specifies the value that is to be assigned to the resource.
.LE
.PP
Because each toolkit-based application can consist of a combination of
widgets (for example, push buttons and a scroll bar), you can form the
name string by adding widget class and name identifiers to the string.
For further information about adding class and name identifiers, see
\*LX\*O(1X).
.PP
For \*Ldxcardfiler\*O, the available class identifiers are:
.PP
.oS
Cardfiler
CardfilerCard
cardmainwindow
indexmainwindow
index_menubar
card_menubar
svnList
card_text
.oE
.PP
The resources available for \*Vdxcardfiler\*O are listed in \*LX\*O(1X).
.PP
Each specification included in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O file for the translations
resource modifies a key setting for the editor that \*Ldxcardfiler\*O uses.
For more information about key and mouse specifications in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O
file, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L~/DXcardfiler\*O"
.LI "\*L~/.Xdefaults\*O"
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LX\*O(1X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
