.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dxcalendar.1X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 20:12:28 $
.\" 
.TH dxcalendar 1X
.SH NAME
\*Ldxcalendar\*O \- DECwindows calendar program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ldxcalendar\*O [ \*Vflags\*O ]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "Calendar"
.iX "DECwindows calendar"
The \*Ldxcalendar\*O command starts an online interactive calendar and
appointment book.  The calendar stores and organizes information about
events, reminds you when the scheduled events are due to take place,
and can automatically schedule events that repeat on a regular basis.
.PP
When it first starts, \*Ldxcalendar\*O creates a binary database file named
\*L.dxcalendar.dwc\*O in your home directory.
.PP
The \*Ldxcalendar\*O command displays calendar information by providing
individual windows for a year, month, or day.  By default, \*Ldxcalendar\*O
displays a window containing a month display with the current day
enclosed in a box.
.PP
To select a month or day, click on the appropriate name or number.  To move
backwards and forwards within one display type, use the scroll bars provided.
To change from one display type to another, double-click on the appropriate
item.  For example, to show a year display, double-click on the year.
To get context-sensitive help on a name or a menu item, place the cursor
on the item and press the Help key and MB1 simultaneously.
.PP
For more information, click on the Help menu, or use the Help key.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-bd \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the window's border (color displays only).
This overrides the system default defined in the Session Manager's Customize
Window dialog box.
.LI "\*L\-bg \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the window's background (color displays only).
This overrides the system default defined in the Session Manager's Customize
Window dialog box.
.LI "\*L\-d \*Vdispname\*O"
Specifies the display screen where \*Ldxcalendar\*O displays its window.
If the display option is not specified, \*Ldxcalendar\*O uses the display
screen specified by your DISPLAY environment variable.  The display option
has the format \*Vhostname\*L:\*Vnumber\*O.  Using two colons (::) instead
of one (:) indicates that DECnet is to be used for transport.  The default
is :0.  For more information, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.LI "\*L\-display \*Vdispname\*O"
This flag is the same as the \*L\-d\*O flag.
.LI "\*L\-fg \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the text (color displays only).
This overrides the system default defined in the Session Manager's Customize
Window dialog box.
.LE
.SH MENUS
.PP
The \*Ldxcalendar\*O window contains the following menus:
.PP
.oS
File
Edit
Link
View
Entry
Options
Help
.oE
.SS File Menu
The File menu lets you modify the \*Ldxcalendar\*O session.  Updates take
effect immediately.  The File menu contains the following menu items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Open"
Lets you select the calendar you want to manipulate or open an additional
calendar.  A dialog box is displayed prompting for the name of the calendar.
You can open calendars for which you do not have write access.  If you
specify the name of a calendar that does not exist, \*Ldxcalendar\*O
prompts you for the name of a calendar that you want to create.
If you have write access to the specified directory, the calendar
is created with your default file access.
.LI "Open in New"
Lets you open another calendar in another window.
.LI "Include"
Allows you to include a file into an entry.
.LI "Close"
Closes the current calendar.  If the current calendar is the only
active calendar, exits from \*Ldxcalendar\*O.
.LI "Name As"
Renames the current calendar.  You are prompted for the new calendar name.
.LI "Delete"
Deletes a calendar.  A dialog box asking for confirmation is displayed.
.LI "Print"
Writes a representation of a specified range of timeslots in the
calendar to a file in PostScript, DDIF, or Text format and
optionally lets you send the file to a printer.
If there is a currently selected timeslot range, \*Ldxcalendar\*O
displays a dialog box asking you to confirm that the selected range
is to be printed.
You can also specify the timeslot range by entering the starting
and ending times of the range to be printed.
.LI "Exit"
Exits from the \*Ldxcalendar\*O application and closes all
\*Ldxcalendar\*O windows.
.LE
.SS Edit Menu
The Edit menu contains the following menu items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Cut"
Cuts the selected text from the application window.
.LI "Copy"
Copies the selected text.
.LI "Paste"
Pastes the text last cut or copied.
.LI "Clear"
Deletes selected text from an entry or deletes a selected entry.
.LI "Select All"
Selects all entries or all text in an open entry.
.LI "Mark"
Alters the display of the selected day.
The Mark submenu contains the following menu items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Default"
Specifies that the selected day be marked as it was at
\*Ldxcalendar\*O startup, after previously being marked with
one of the other four options.
.LI "Work Day"
Specifies that the selected day be marked as a work day (bold type).
.LI "Non-Work Day"
Specifies that the selected day be marked as a non-work day (lighter type).
.LI "Normal"
Specifies that the selected day be marked as a non-special day (normal type).
.LI "Special"
Specifies that the selected day be marked as a special day (bold, larger,
and on color displays, red type).
.LE
.LE
.SS Link Menu
The Link Menu contains the following menu items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Go To"
Shrinks the current application window to an icon and invokes
the appropriate application to display the linked information.
.LI "Visit"
Invokes the appropriate application to display the linked
information but keeps the current application window open.
Input focus remains in the current application window.
.LI "Step Forward"
Moves to the next step in the currently active navigation path.
.LI "Show Links"
Displays information about the links for the selected object and lets
you edit certain link information.
.LI "Show History"
Shows the history of your navigation operations.
.LI "Go Back"
Reverses the most recent Visit or Go To operation.
Go Back does not delete or otherwise affect existing links.
.LI "Start Link"
Specifies the source of a link.  Select a linkable object and
then choose Start Link in the Link menu of the hyperapplication.
.LI "Complete Link"
Completes the link using LinkWorks default values.  Select a linkable object
to become the target of the link, and
then choose Complete Link in the Link menu of the hyperapplication.
.LI "Complete Link..."
Displays a dialog box where you can edit information about the link,
and completes the link when you click on OK.  Select a linkable object
to become the target of the link, and
then choose Complete Link... in the Link menu of the hyperapplication.
.LI "Turn Highlight On/Off"
Specifies that the highlighting of linked objects be enabled (on) or disabled
(off).  This item says Turn Highlight On if highlighting is currently disabled,
and it says Turn Highlight Off if highlighting is currently enabled.
.LI "Highlight..."
Allows you to enable or disable highlighting, and to specify which types
of linkable objects are highlighted when highlighting is enabled.
.LE
.SS View Menu
The View Menu contains the following menu items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Selected"
Changes the current display to the display type of the selected item.
For example, if a day number is selected from a year display, the display
type is converted to a day display, with the selected day displayed.
The selected item must be the name or number of a year, month, or day.
.LI "Today"
Changes the current display to a display of the current day.
.LI "Day"
Changes the current display to a day display.
.LI "Month"
Changes the current display to a month display.  By default, \*Ldxcalendar\*O
displays the month containing the current day.
.LI "Year"
Changes the current display to a year display.  By default, \*Ldxcalendar\*O
displays the year containing the current day and month.
.LE
.SS Entry Menu
If you double click on a day, or choose either the Today or the
Day option from the View menu, the Entry menu is listed on the menu bar.
The Entry menu also appears on the menu bar when you invoke
\*Ldxcalendar\*O if you have used the Customize menu's General option
to select Day as the First View.
The Entry menu contains the following menu items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Edit"
Lets you add and delete calendar timeslot entries.  This item is enabled
only if the day display is in use and a timeslot is selected.
A dialog box appears with a text window that lets you enter text
into the selected timeslot and prompts for an alarm.
When the alarm is activated, \*Ldxcalendar\*O displays a dialog box
listing the date, the time of the timeslot and the contents of the
timeslot entry, and emits a beep.
.LI "Close"
Closes an open entry.
.LI "Delete"
Deletes an entry.
.LI "Reset"
Removes any changes you have made to the entry.
.LE
.SS Options Menu
The Options menu contains the following menu items:
.VL 4m
.LI "General"
Customize various general options.
.LI "Day View"
Customize the day view.  Customization affects the default behavior when
creating new entries.  There is no effect on already existing entries.
.IP
NOTE:
.IP
To modify existing entries, you can either open the Edit dialog box
from the Entry menu by double clicking with MB1 in the timeslot's icon
area, and then make day display modifications, or you can select the Mark
item from the Edit menu and then select the various day display options.
.LI "Icon"
Customize the icon box
.LI "Alarms"
Customize the default alarms.
.LI "Save Settings"
Save current settings.
.LI "Restore Settings"
Cancel any unsaved changes you have made.
.LI "Restore System Settings"
Return to the default \*Ldxcalendar\*O settings.
.LE
.SS Help Menu
The Help menu contains the following menu items:
.VL 4m
.LI "On Context"
Starts context sensitive help.
.LI "On Window"
Enters the Overview help topic.
.LI "On Help"
Provides information on how to use help.
.LI "On Version"
Provides information on the current version of Calendar.
.LI "Glossary"
Provides a glossary of terms used in the Calendar application.
.LE
.SH X Defaults
.PP
The \*Ldxcalendar\*O application uses the values in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O
file when you logged in and uses the appropriate resource specification
to customize the appearance or characteristics of its displayed
\*Ldxcalendar\*O window.  The format for a resource specification in the
\*L.Xdefaults\*O file is:
.PP
.sS
[\*Vname\*L*\*O]\*Vresource\*L:  \*Vvalue\*O
.sE
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Specifies the application name or the name string that restricts the
resource assignment to that application or to a component of an application.
If this argument is not specified, the resource assignment is globally
available to all X applications.
.LI "\*Vresource\*O"
Specifies the resource.
.LI "\*Vvalue\*O"
Specifies the value that is to be assigned to the resource.
.LE
.PP
The available class identifier is \*Ldxcalendar\*O.
.PP
For more information, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L~/.Xdefaults\*O"
.LI "\*L~/DXcalendar\*O"
.LI "\*L~/.dxcalendar.dwc\*O"
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Llwkmanager\*O(1X),
\*Llwksetup\*O(1X),
\*Lmwm\*O(1X),
\*LX\*O(1X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
