.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dxcalc.1X,v $ $Revision: 1.1.4.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 20:12:21 $
.\"
.TH dxcalc 1X
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ldxcalc\*O \- DECwindows interface to the calculator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ldxcalc\*O [\*Vflags\*O]
.sE
.iX "Calculator"
.iX "Calculator"
.iX "DECwindows calculator"
.iX "DECwindows calculator"
.iX "DECwindows Interface" "calculator"
.iX "DECwindows Interface" "calculator"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-bd \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the window's border (color displays only). This
overrides the system default defined in the Session Manager's Customize Window
dialog box.
.LI "\*L-bg \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the window's background (color displays only). This
overrides the system default defined in the Session Manager's Customize Window
dialog box.
.LI "\*L-d \*Vdispname\*O"
Specifies the display screen where \*Ldxcalc\*O displays its window.  If the
display option is not specified, \*Ldxcalc\*O uses the display screen specified
by your DISPLAY environment variable.  The display option has the format
\*Vhostname:number\*O.  Using two colons (::) instead of one colon (:)
indicates that DECnet is to be used for transport.  The default is :0.
For more information, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.LI "\*L-display \*Vdispname\*O"
This option is the same as the \*L-d\*O option.
.LI "\*L-fg \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the text (color displays only). This
overrides the system default defined in the Session Manager's Customize Window
dialog box.
.LI "\*L-fn \*Vfont\*O"
Specifies the font for calculator menus.  (Key fonts are automatically
scaled to match the size of the calculator.)  The default font is menu12.
A font value specified in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O file overrides this option.
.LI "\*L-geometry\*O"
Specifies the width, length, and location of the \*Ldxcalc\*O window.
If the geometry option is not specified, \*Ldxcalc\*O uses default values.
The geometry option has the format
[\*Vwidth\*O\*Lx\*O\*Vlength\*O][{+-}\*Vx\*O{+-}\*Vy\*O].  For more
information about the screen coordinate system, see \*LX\*O(X).
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Ldxcalc\*O command displays a 27-function calculator with one
memory location that is always visible.  The \*Ldxcalc\*O
calculator has a maximum display of 15 digits.
.PP
To press a button displayed in the \*Ldxcalc\*O window,
click on it with MB1 (the left mouse button, unless you have redefined it).
In addition, you can enter numbers by typing them in from the keyboard.
To perform a function from the keyboard, check the key binding listed
in the application's on-line help or in this reference page.
.SS Menus
The \*Ldxcalc\*O application contains the following menus:
.ML
.LI
File
.LI
Edit
.LI
Mode
.LI
Help
.LI
Pop-up
.LE
.SS File Menu
The File menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LSave Geometry\*O"
Saves the calculator's size and position, to use the next time you
run the calculator.
.LI "\*LRestore System Settings\*O"
Restores the use of the system default values for size and position.
.LI "\*LExit\*O"
Closes the \*Ldxcalc\*O window.
.LE
.SS Edit Menu
The Edit menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LUndo\*O"
Undoes the last keystroke or operation.
.LI "\*LCopy\*O"
Copies the selected text onto the clipboard.
.LI "\*LPaste\*O"
Pastes in text from the clipboard.
.LE
.SS Mode Menu
The Mode menu lets you select Decimal, Hexidecimal, or Octal modes. In Decimal
mode, the display and accumulator must be less than 15 digits. In Hexidecimal
and Octal mode, the accumulator and the display can not exceed 32 bits.
.SS Help Menu
The Help menu displays information about \*Ldxcalc\*O.
.SS Pop-up Menu
To display the \*Ldxcalc\*O pop-up menu, place the pointer at any
position in the \*Ldxcalc\*O window and click MB3.
This menu contains the following items:
.ML
.LI
Undo
.LI
Copy
.LI
Paste
.LI
Exit
.LE
.SS Key Bindings
The \*Ldxcalc\*O application has key bindings that allow you to use the
keyboard, the keypad, or function keys for all mathematical functions. Some key
bindings are available only in certain modes as stated below.
.PP
If a key binding is specified as
.K, "Shift+F1" ","
for example, hold down the shift key and press the F1 function key.
Similarly,
.kY "Ctrl+F4"
means hold down the control key and press the F4 function key.
Some key bindings require a sequence of two keys, for example,
.kY "M"
+
.kY "C"
(first type and release the M key, then type and release the C key).
.PP
The key bindings are:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lnumbers\*O"
The numbers on the keypad and the numbers on the top row of keys on the
keyboard map to themselves.
.LI "\*Lc\*O"
Clears both the display and the accumulator. Maps to
.kY "C"
(except in Hexidecimal mode)
and to
.K, "Shift+F1" ". "
In Hexidecimal mode, maps to
.K, "Ctrl+C" "."
.LI "\*Lce\*O"
Clears the display. Maps to
.kY "E"
(except in Hexidecimal mode) and to
.K, "Shift+F2" "."
.LI "\*L+\*O"
Adds the value in the display to the value in the accumulator. Maps to
the plus symbol
.kY "+"
on the keyboard top row and the comma
.kY ","
on the keypad.
.LI "\*L-\*O"
Subtracts the value in the display from the value in the accumulator. Maps to
the hyphen on the keyboard top row and the minus sign on the keypad.
.LI "\*LMultiplication\*O"
Multiplies the value in the accumulator by the value in the
display.  Maps to the asterisk
.kY "*"
on the keyboard top row and to
.K, "PF1" "."
.LI "\*LDivision\*O"
Divides the value in the accumulator by the value in the display. Maps to
the slash
.kY "/"
on the keyboard bottom row and to
.K, "PF2" "."
.LI "\*LMemory clear\*O"
Clears the contents of memory. Maps to the
.kY "M"
+
.kY "C"
key sequence and to
.K, "Ctrl+F4" "."
.LI "\*LMemory minus\*O"
Subtracts the value in the display from the value in memory. Maps to the
.kY "M"
+
.kY "-"
key sequence and to
.K, "Ctrl+F7" "."
.LI "\*LMemory plus\*O"
Adds the value in the display to the value in memory and stores the
result. Maps to the
.kY "M"
+
.kY "+"
key sequence and to
.K, "Ctrl+F6"  "."
.LI "\*LMemory recall\*O"
Places the contents of the memory in the display.
Maps to the
.kY "M"
+
.kY "R"
key sequence and to
.K, "Ctrl+F5" "."
.LI "\*LEquals\*O"
Displays the result of the last operation (or series of operations).
Maps to
.K, "=" ","
.K, "Enter" ","
.K, "Do" ","
and
.K, "Return"  "."
.LE
.PP
The following functions are available in Decimal mode only.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LSquare root\*O"
Returns the square root of the value in the display. Maps to
.kY "Q"
and to
.K, "Shift+F9" "."
.LI "\*LNegation\*O"
Changes the value in the display from positive to negative or
from negative to positive. Maps to
.kY "N"
and to
.K, "PF3" "."
.LI "\*LPercent\*O"
Maps to
.kY "%"
on the keyboard top row and to
.K, "PF4" "."
.LI "\*LDecimal Point\*O"
Inserts a decimal point into the number in the display.
Maps to the period keys on the keyboard and keypad.
.LI "\*LPI\*O"
Places the value of pi in the display. Maps to
.K, "P"  "."
.LI "\*LInverse\*O"
If the next function is sin, cos, or tan, executes the respective inverse trig
function. If the next function is log or ln (natural log), returns 10 to the
x or e to the x, where x is the value in the display. Maps to
.kY "I"
and to
.K, "Shift+F3" "."
.LI "\*LSine\*O"
Returns the sine of the value in the display.  (If the inverse setting is on,
returns the arcsine.)  The angle is in degrees, radians, or gradient,
according to the state of the degrees key. Maps to
.kY "S"
and to
.K, "Shift+F4" "."
.LI "\*LCosine\*O"
Returns the cosine of the value in the display. (If the inverse setting is on,
returns the arccosine.) The angle is in degrees, radians, or gradient,
according to the state of the degrees key. Maps to
.kY "O"
and to
.K, "Shift+F5" "."
.LI "\*LTangent\*O"
Returns the tangent of the value in the display. (If the inverse setting is on,
returns the arctangent.) The angle is in degrees, radians,
or gradient, according to the state of the degrees key.
Maps to
.kY "T"
and to
.K, "Shift+F6" "."
.LI "\*LLog based 10\*O"
Returns the log (base 10) of the value, x, in the display.  (If the inverse
setting is on, returns 10 to the x.) Maps to the
.kY "L"
+
.kY "O"
key sequence and to
.K, "Shift+F7" "."
.LI "\*LNatural log\*O"
Returns the natural log of the value, x, in the display. (If the inverse
setting is on, returns e to x.)  Maps to the
.kY "L"
+
.kY "N"
key sequence and to
.K, "Shift+F8" "."
.LI "\*Ly to the x\*O"
Returns the value in the accumulator raised to the power of the value in the
display. (If the inverse setting is on, returns y to the minus x.) Maps to the
circumflex
.kY "^"
on the keyboard top row and to
.K, "Shift+F10" "."
.LI "\*LDegrees\*O"
Switches the measurement unit for trig functions among degrees, radians,
and gradient. Maps to
.kY "D"
and to
.K, "Ctrl+F8" "."
.LI "\*LFactorial\*O"
If an integer n, greater than or equal to zero, is displayed, returns the
factorial of the display, n*(n-1)*(n-2)...*1. Maps to the exclamation mark
.kY "!"
and to
.K, "Ctrl+F9" "."
.LI "\*L1 over x\*O"
Returns the reciprocal of the display. Maps to the tilde
.kY "~"
on the keyboard top row and to
.K, "Ctrl+F10" "."
.LI "\*LRandom number\*O"
Returns a random number between 1 and the display. Maps
to
.kY "R"
and to
.K, "Ctrl+F11" "."
.LE
.PP
The following boolean functions are available in Hexidecimal and Octal modes
only. They are 32-bit operations.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Land\*O"
Performs a bitwise \*Land\*O boolean operation between the value in the
accumulator and the value in the display. Maps to
.kY "&"
on the keyboard top row and to
.K, "Ctrl+F8" "."
.LI "\*Lor\*O"
Performs a bitwise \*Lor\*O boolean operation between the value in the
accumulator and the value in the display. Maps to the vertical bar
.kY "|"
on the keyboard and to
.K, "Ctrl+F9" "."
.LI "\*Lxor\*O"
Performs a bitwise \*Lxor\*O boolean operation between the value in the
accumulator and the value in the display. Maps to the circumflex
.kY "^"
on the keyboard top row and to
.K, "Ctrl+F10" "."
.LI "\*Lnor\*O"
Performs a bitwise \*Lnor\*O boolean operation between the value in the
accumulator and the value in the display. Maps to
.K, "Ctrl+F11" "."
.LI "\*Lnot\*O"
Performs a bitwise \*Lnot\*O boolean operation on the value in the
display. Maps to the tilde
.kY "~"
on the keyboard top row and to
.K, "Shift+F9" "."
.LI "\*Lneg\*O"
Performs a bitwise \*Lneg\*O boolean operation (complementation) on the value
in the display. Maps to the
.kY "!"
and to
.K, "Shift+F10" "."
.LE
.PP
The following are available in Hexidecimal mode only.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lnumbers A to F\*O"
The numbers A through F are entered via the same keyboard letters or as follows.
A:
.K, "Shift+F3" "; "
B:
.K, "Shift+F4" "; "
C:
.K, "Shift+F5" "; "
D:
.K, "Shift+F6" "; "
E:
.K, "Shift+F7" "; "
F:
.K, "Shift+F8" "."
.LE
.SS X Defaults
The \*Ldxcalc\*O application uses the values in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O
file when you logged in and uses the appropriate resource specification
values to customize the appearance of the \*Ldxcalc\*O window.
The format for a resource specification in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O file is:
.PP
.sS
[\*Vname*\*O]\*Vresource\*O:  \*Vvalue\*O
.sE
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Specifies the application name or the name string that restricts the
resource assignment to that application or to a component of an application.
If this argument is not specified, the resource assignment is globally
available to all X applications.
.LI "\*Lresource\*O"
Specifies the resource.
.LI "\*Lvalue\*O"
Specifies the value that is to be assigned to the resource.
.LE
.PP
Because each toolkit-based application can consist of a combination of
widgets (for example, push buttons and a scroll bar),
you can form the name string by adding widget class and name identifiers
to the string.  For further information about adding class and name
identifiers, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.PP
For \*Ldxcalc\*O, the available class identifiers are:
.ML
.LI
Calc
.LI
MenuBar
.LE
.PP
For \*Ldxcalc\*O, the available name identifiers are:
.ML
.LI
sqrtFontFamily
.LI
KeyFontFamily
.LE
.PP
The general resources listed in \*LX\*O(1X) apply to \*Ldxcalc\*O.
.PP
The fonts used by \*Ldxcalc\*O are specified by an asterisk (*).  This is
done so that a font family is chosen instead of a particular font.  The
asterisk (*) is a wildcard character that matches all font sizes.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L~/.Xdefaults\*O"
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/DXcalc\*O"
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*LX\*O(1X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
