.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dxclock.1X,v $ $Revision: 1.1.4.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 20:12:38 $
.\"
.TH dxclock 1X
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ldxclock\*O \- DECwindows interface to the clock
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ldxclock\*O [ \*Vflags\*O ]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-bd \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the window's border (color displays only).
This overrides the system default defined in the Session Manager's Customize
Window dialog box.
.LI "\*L-bg \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the window's background (color displays only).
This overrides the system default defined in the Session Manager's Customize
Window dialog box.
.LI "\*L-d \*Vdispname\*O"
Specifies the display screen where \*Ldxclock\*O displays its window.
If the display option is not specified, \*Ldxclock\*O uses the display screen
specified by your DISPLAY environment variable.  The display option has the
format \*Vhostname:number\*O.  Using two colons (::) instead of one (:)
indicates that DECnet is to be used for transport.  The default is :0.
For more information, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.LI "\*L-display \*Vdispname\*O"
This option is the same as the \*V-d\*O option.
.LI "\*L-fg \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the text (color displays only).
This overrides the system default defined in the Session Manager's Customize
Window dialog box.
.LI "\*L-fn \*Vfont\*O"
Specifies the font for all of the clock menus.  (The analog and digital
fonts are automatically scaled to match the clock size.) The default font
is menu12. This option is overriden by the \*L.Xdefaults\*O file.
.LI "\*L-geometry\*O"
Specifies the width, length, and location of the \*Ldxclock\*O window.
If the geometry option is not specified, \*Ldxclock\*O
uses default values.  The geometry option has the format
[\*Vwidth\*Ox\*Vlength\*O][{+-}\*Vx\*O{+-}\*Vy\*O].  For more information
about the screen coordinate system, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.LE
.PP
The \*Ldxclock\*O window has one pop-up menu.  To display this pop-up menu,
position the pointer anywhere within the \*Ldxclock\*O window and
click MB3 (the right mouse button unless you have redefined
it). This menu contains the following menu items:
.VL
.LI "\*LDisplay...\*O"
Displays the Settings dialog box that lets you specify the clock
regions to display, turn on or turn off the use of analog time,
digital time, date, menu bar and 24-hour digital time.
.LI "\*LAlarm...\*O"
Sets the alarm, and enter a message that appears when
the alarm goes off.  You can also display this dialog box by placing the
pointer at any position within the \*Ldxclock\*O window and
double-clicking MB1.
.LI "\*LSave Options\*O"
Saves the clock's settings and its size and position, to use the next
time you run the clock.
.LI "\*LRestore System Options\*O"
Restores the use of system default values for the clock's settings, size,
and position.
.LI "\*LHelp\*O"
Displays information about using the \*Ldxclock\*O command.
.LI "\*LExit\*O"
Closes the \*Ldxclock\*O window.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "Clock"
.iX "Clock"
.iX "DECwindows clock"
.iX "DECwindows clock"
.iX "DECwindows Interface" "clock"
.iX "DECwindows Interface" "clock"
.PP
The \*Ldxclock\*O command displays a window that continuously displays
the system date and time. The clock can display time values in
military style (0 through 23 hours) or in 12-hour AM and PM format.
The \*Ldxclock\*O window has an alarm and the following components:
.ML
.LI
Analog region
.LI
Digital region
.LI
Date region
.LE
.PP
.SS X Defaults
The \*Ldxclock\*O application uses the values in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O
file when you logged in and uses the appropriate resource specification
to customize the appearance of the \*Ldxclock\*O window.  A resource
specification in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O file has the following format:
.PP
.sS
[\*Vname\*O*]\*Vresource\*O:    \*Lvalue\*O
.sE
.VL
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Specifies the application name or the name string that restricts the
resource assignment to that application or to a component of an application.
If this argument is not specified, the resource assignment is globally
available to all X applications.
.LI "\*Vresource\*O"
Specifies the resource.
.LI "\*Vvalue\*O"
Specifies the value that is to be assigned to the resource.
.LE
.PP
Because each toolkit-based application can consist of a combination of
widgets (for example, push buttons and a scroll bar),
you can form the name string by adding widget class and name identifiers
to the string.  For further information about adding class and name
identifiers, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.PP
For \*Ldxclock\*O the available class identifiers is \*LClock\*O.
.PP
For \*Ldxclock\*O, the available name identifiers are \*LDigital\*O and
\*LFontFamily\*O.
.PP
In addition to the general resources listed in \*LX\*O(1X),
the resources available for \*Ldxclock\*O are:
.VL
.LI "\*LAlarmOn\*O"
Specifies that the alarm be turned on.  If set to zero, the alarm is
not turned on.  If set to 1, the alarm is turned on.  The default is
zero.
.LI "\*LAlarmHour\*O"
Specifies the hour the alarm is to go off (0 to 23).
The default is 12.
.LI "\*LAlarmMessage\*O"
Specifies the message to be displayed when the alarm goes off.
The default is the string Alarm Message.
.LI "\*LAlarmMinute\*O"
Specifies the minute the alarm is to go off (00 to 59).
The default is 00.
.LI "\*LAlarmPM\*O"
Specifies that the alarm is set for PM.  If set to zero, the alarm is
set for AM.  If set to 1, the alarm is set for PM.  The default is zero.
.LI "\*LAnalogOn\*O"
Specifies whether the analog portion of the \*Ldxclock\*O window is displayed.
If set to zero, the analog portion is not displayed.  If set to 1, the analog
portion is displayed.  The default is 1.
.LI "\*LDateOn\*O"
Specifies whether the date portion of the \*Ldxclock\*O window is displayed.
If set to zero, the date portion is not displayed.  If set to 1, the date
portion is displayed. The default is 1.
.LI "\*LDigitalOn\*O"
Specifies whether the digital portion of the \*Ldxclock\*O window is displayed.
If set to zero, the digital portion is not displayed.  If set to 1, the digital
portion is displayed.  The default is 1.
.LI "\*LmilitaryOn\*O"
Specifies whether the digital portion of the \*Ldxclock\*O window displays
the date in 12-hour format or 24-hour format.  If set to zero, 12-hour
format is used. If set to 1, 24-hour format is used.  The default is zero.
.LE
.PP
The fonts used by \*Ldxclock\*O are specified by an asterisk (*).  This
is done so that a font family is chosen instead of a particular font.  The
asterisk (*) is a wildcard character that matches all font sizes.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The system time cannot be changed while the clock is running. The
\*Ldxclock\*O window must be closed and reopened if the system time
is changed.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L~/.Xdefaults\*O"
.LI "\*L~/.DXclock\*O"
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/DXclock\*O"
.LI "\*L~./DXclock\*O"
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*LX\*O(1X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
