.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dxdiff.1X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 20:12:43 $
.\"
.TH dxdiff 1X
.SH NAME
\*Ldxdiff\*O \- DECwindows visual differences program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ldxdiff\*O [ \*Vflags\*O ] [ \*Vfile1 file2\*O ]
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vfile\*O"
Specifies the two files that are to be opened at startup.
If you do not specify any file names, \*Ldxdiff\*O
lets you specify files after it has started up.
.LE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\-bd \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the window's border (color displays only).
The default is black.
.LI "\-bg \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the window's background (color displays only).
The default is white.
.LI "\-d \*Vdispname\*O"
Specifies the display screen where \*Ldxdiff\*O displays its window.  If the
display option is not specified, \*Ldxdiff\*O uses the display screen specified
by your DISPLAY environment variable.  The display option has the format
\*Vhostname\*L:\*Vnumber\*O.  Using two colons (::) instead of one (:)
indicates that DECnet is to be used for transport.  The default is :0.
For more information, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.LI "\*L\-display \*Vdispname\*O"
This option is the same as the \*L\-d\*O option.
.LI "\*L\-fg \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the text (color displays only).  The default is black.
.LI "\*L\-fn \*Vfont\*O"
Specifies the font used as the output font.  The default font is times_bold12.
.LI "\*L\-geometry\*O"
Specifies the width, length, and location of the \*Ldxdiff\*O window.
If the geometry option is not specified, \*Ldxdiff\*O uses default values.
The geometry option has the format
[\*Vwidth\*Ox\*Vlength\*O][{+-}\*Vx\*O{+-}\*Vy\*O].
For more information about the screen coordinate system, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.LI "\*L\-sv\*O"
Disables linked vertical scrolling.
.LI "\*L\+sv\*O"
Enables linked vertical scrolling. This is the default.
.LI "\*L\-sh\*O"
Disables linked horizontal scrolling
.LI "\*L\+sh\*O"
Enables linked horizontal scrolling. This is the default.
.LI "\*L\-dl\*O"
Enables the display of filled polygons to connect areas of different text.
This is the default.
.LI "\*L\+dl\*O"
Enables the display of lines to connect areas of different text.
.LI "\*L\-ln\*O"
Disables the display of line numbers in the difference region.
.LI "\*L\+ln\*O"
Enables the display of line numbers in the difference region.
This is the default.
.LI "\*L\-lnfg \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the foreground color for the line numbers in the difference box.
The default is black.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "Visual differences program"
.iX "Viewer" "differences in ASCII files"
.iX "DECwindows differences program"
.iX "DECwindows Interface" "visual differences program"
The \*Ldxdiff\*O application does a line-by-line comparison of two files and
displays the differences between them.
The contents of the two files are displayed in two text regions on either side
of a central difference region.
The differences between the files are displayed as highlighted text.
The differences are connected by
lines or filled polygons across the central difference region.
Line numbers are optionally displayed at each end of the difference lines,
to show where the differences occur within the files.
Note that the files must be ASCII text files.
.SH MENUS
.PP
The \*Ldxdiff\*O window contains the following menus:
.PP
.oS
File
Options
Differences
Help
.oE
.SS File Menu
The \*Ldxdiff\*O File menu contains the following menu items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Open..."
Calls up two Open... dialog boxes,
to allow you to specify the two files that you want to compare.
The dialog boxes are labeled Left File and Right File.
You must select one file from each dialog box.
.LI "Exit"
Exits the current \*Ldxdiff\*O session.  If the session is the original one,
all other \*Ldxdiff\*O sessions and windows are closed.
.LE
.SS Options Menu
The Options menu contains the following menu items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Linked Vertical Scrolling On/Off"
The default is linked vertical scrolling.  When linked vertical scrolling
is on and you scroll one of the files, the other file is scrolled with
it line for line.  When linked vertical scrolling is off, one file can be
scrolled independently of the other one.
.LI "Linked Horizontal Scrolling On/Off"
The default is linked horizontal scrolling.  When linked horizontal
scrolling is on and you scroll one of the files, the other file is scrolled
with it.  When linked horizontal scrolling is off, one file can be
scrolled independently of the other one.
.LI "Render Diffs As Lines/Render Diffs As Filled Polygons"
Displays either lines or filled polygons to connect the differences across
the difference box.
The default on startup is for filled polygons to be displayed.
.LI "Display Diff Line Numbers/No Diff Line Numbers"
Displays line numbers at each end of the lines that connect the differences.
The default is to display line numbers.  If \*Ldxdiff\*O
cannot find a suitable font size for displaying the line numbers,
this item is disabled.
.LE
.SS Differences Menu
The Differences menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Do Differences"
Displays the differences between the two currently selected files.
.LI "Do Differences In New"
Opens a new \*Ldxdiff\*O window to display the differences between the
two currently selected files.  The existing \*Ldxdiff\*O window remains
on the screen for reference.
.LE
.SS Help Menu
The Help Menu button invokes a help window that provides information
on \*Ldxdiff\*O.
.SH X DEFAULTS
.PP
The \*Ldxdiff\*O application uses the values in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O
file when you logged in and uses the appropriate resource specification
to customize the appearance or characteristics of its displayed \*Ldxdiff\*O
window.  The format for a resource specification in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O
file is:
.PP
.sS
[*name\*L*]\*Vresource\*L:  \*Vvalue\*O
.sE
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Specifies the application name or the name string that restricts the
resource assignment to that application or to a component of an application.
If this argument is not specified, the resource assignment is globally
available to all X applications.
.LI "\*Vresource\*O"
Specifies the resource.
.LI "\*Vvalue\*O"
Specifies the value that is to be assigned to the resource.
.LE
.PP
For more information, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.PP
Because each toolkit-based application can consist of a combination of
widgets (for example, push buttons and a scroll bar), you can form the
name string by adding widget class and name identifiers to the string.
For further information about adding class and name identifiers, see
\*LX\*O(1X).
.PP
For \*Ldxdiff\*O, the available class identifiers are:
.PP
.oS
XmLabel
XmPushButton
XmRowColumn
XmScrollbar
XmText
.oE
.PP
For \*Ldxdiff\*O, the available name identifiers are:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LDxDiff\*O"
The application class name
.LI "\*Ldxdiff\*O"
The application name
.LI "\*Ldxdiffmaindisplay\*O"
The entire display, which includes all of the components of the window
.LI "\*Lmainmenu\*O"
The main menu bar, which includes the pull-down menus
.LI "\*Lleftfileselector\*O"
The file selection dialog box for selecting a file to be displayed in the
left text display region
.LI "\*Lrightfileselector\*O"
The file selection dialog box for selecting a file to be displayed in
the right text display region
.LI "\*Lfilespulldown\*O"
The File pull-down menu
.LI "\*Lopenfiles\*O"
The Open button on the File menu
.LI "\*Lquit\*O"
The Exit button on the File menu
.LI "\*Loptionspulldown\*O"
The Options pull-down menu
.LI "\*Lslavevertical\*O"
The Linked Vertical Scrolling On/Off button on the Options menu
.LI "\*Lslavehorizontal\*O"
The Linked Horizontal Scrolling On/Off button on the Options menu
.LI "\*Ldrawdiffs\*O"
The Display Diffs As Lines/Filled Polygons button on the Options menu
.LI "\*Ldrawlinenumbers\*O"
The Display Line Numbers button on the Options menu
.LI "\*Ldifferencespulldown\*O"
The Differences pull-down menu
.LI "\*Ldodifferences\*O"
The Do Differences button on the Differences menu
.LI "\*Ldodifferencesinnew\*O"
The Do Differences In New button on the Differences menu
.LI "\*Ltextregiondisplay\*O"
The text region display, which includes both the left and the right
text display regions, each of which include the file name bars, the
vertical scroll bars, the push button region and the text panes
.LI "\*Ldiffregion\*O"
The region where the lines connecting the differences are displayed
.LI "\*Lfilenamebar\*O"
The file name bars at the top of each text region
.LI "\*Lvscroll\*O"
The vertical scroll bars
.LI "\*Ltextdisplay\*O"
The region where the file contents are displayed
.LI "\*Ldisplaymenu\*O"
The push button region at the bottom of each text display region
.LI "\*Lnextdiff\*O"
The Next Diff push button
.LI "\*Lprevdiff\*O"
The Prev Diff push button
.LE
.PP
In addition to the general resources listed in \*LX\*O(1X), the resources
available for \*Ldxdiff\*O are:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LslaveVerticalScrolling\*O"
Enable or disable linked vertical scrolling.  The default is on.
.LI "\*LslaveHorizontalScrolling\*O"
Enable or disable linked horizontal scrolling.  The default is on.
.LI "\*LdisplayLineNumbers\*O"
Enable or disable display of line numbers in the difference region.
The default is on.
.LI "\*LdrawDiffsAsLines\*O"
Enable or disable use of lines to connect areas of different text.
The default is off.
If drawing of lines is disabled, filled polygons are used.
.LI "\*LlineNumberForeground\*O"
Specify the foreground color for line numbers in the difference box.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To change the background color of the \*Ldxdiff\*O text regions, add the
following entry to your \*L\&.Xdefaults\*O file:
.IP
.oS
dxdiff*textdisplay*background:  blue
.oE
.LI
To change the background color of the push button region at the bottom
of the window, add the following entry to your \*L\&.Xdefaults\*O file:
.IP
.oS
dxdiff*displaymenu*background:   red
.oE
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L~/.Xdefaults\*O"
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/DxDiff\*O"
.LI "\*L~/DxDiff\*O"
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Ldiff\*O(1),
\*Lmwm\*O(1X),
\*LX\*O(1X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
