.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dxmail.1X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/07 23:37:34 $
.\"
.TH dxmail 1X
.SH NAME
\*Ldxmail\*O \- DECwindows mail program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Ldxmail\*O [ \*Vflags\*O ]
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-bd \*Vcolor\*O"
On color displays, specifies the color of highlighted folders. (Folders
containing unread messages are highlighted.) This overrides the system default
defined in the Session Manager's Customize Window dialog box.
.LI "\*L\-bg \*Vcolor\*O"
On color displays, specifies the color of the window's background.
This overrides the system default defined in the Session Manager's
Customize Window dialog box.
.LI "\*L\-bw \*Vpixels\*O"
Specifies the width (in pixels) of the window's border.
.LI "\*L\-d\*O"
For debug purposes only.
.LI "\*L\-display \*Vdispname\*O"
Specifies the display screen where \*Ldxmail\*O displays its window.
If the display option is not specified, \*Ldxmail\*O uses the display
screen specified by your DISPLAY environment variable.  The display
option has the format \*Vhostname:number\*O.  Using two colons (::)
instead of one (:) indicates that DECnet is to be used for transport.
The default is :0.  For more information, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.LI "\*L\-fg \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the text. This overrides the system default defined in
the Session Manager's Customize Window dialog box.
.LI "\*L\-fn \*Vfont\*O"
Specifies the font used as the output font.  Any fixed-width font can be used.
The default is 6x13.
.LI "\*L\-n \*Vname\*O"
Specifies the name that is to replace the program name.
.LI "\*L\-rv\*O"
Reverses the default color values (for example, black becomes white and white
becomes black).  The default is On.
.LI "\*L\-t \*Vtitle\*O"
Specifies the title to be listed in the main window's title bar.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "DECwindows mail handler"
.iX "Mail handler" "DECwindows interface to"
.iX "mh mail handler" "DECwindows interface to"
.iX "DECwindows Interface" "mh mail handler"
The \*Ldxmail\*O command provides a window-oriented interface to the
\*Lmh\*O Mail Handler.  The \*Lmh\*O Mail Handler software must be
installed on your system before you can use \*Ldxmail\*O.
.PP
When \*Ldxmail\*O starts, it checks in your home directory for the
file \*L\&.mh_profile\*O.  If the file is there, \*Ldxmail\*O
reads and uses the configuration information that the file contains.
If the file is not there, \*Ldxmail\*O creates it and includes the
minimum required default values.
.SH MAIN WINDOW
.PP
At startup, the \*Ldxmail\*O main window is displayed. It consists of seven
areas:
.VL 4m
.LI "Title Bar"
Displays window manager icons that allow you to move and resize the
\*Ldxmail\*O window and to shrink it to an icon.  For more information, see
\*Lmwm\*O(1X).
.LI "Menu Bar"
Lists the available \*Ldxmail\*O menus (for example, File or Edit). See the
section ``Menu Bar,'' below.
.LI "Folder Index Pane"
Lists your current folders.  By default, \*Ldxmail\*O puts your incoming
mail in the inbox folder.  When you receive new mail, \*Ldxmail\*O
draws a border around the inbox folder.  Drafts of messages can be saved
in the drafts folder and messages to be deleted can be placed in the
wastebasket folder.  To select a folder, click on the appropriate folder
button.  When a folder button is selected, \*Ldxmail\*O highlights
that button.  To view the contents of a folder, double-click on the
appropriate folder button.
.LI "Global Commands Pane"
Contains buttons that execute the general \*Ldxmail\*O commands (for example,
New mail or Create-Send). See the section ``Global Commands Pane,'' below.
.LI "Folder Title Bar"
Lists the name of the currently opened folder.
.LI "Message Index Pane"
Lists the messages in the currently opened folder.  Initially, this window
lists the messages contained in the inbox folder. See the section ``Message
Index and Message Commands Panes,'' below.
.LI "Message Commands Pane"
Contains buttons that execute the commonly used commands which affect the
messages listed in the Message Index Pane. Dimmed commands are disabled. See
the section ``Message Index and Message Commands Panes,'' below.
.LE
.SS Menu Bar
The Main Window's Menu Bar provides access to both commonly and less commonly
used commands. (Access to the more commonly used commands is made easier with
the Global Commands and Message Commands Panes, described later in this
reference page.) The Menu Bar contains the following menus:
.PP
.oS
File
Edit
Pick
Create-Send
Read
Maintenance
Customize
Help
.oE
.PP
\f2File Menu\*O
.VL 4m
.LI "Move"
Moves the message to the selected folder.  However, \*Ldxmail\*O
does not remove the message from the original folder until you close
and reopen the folder, select the Commit Changes menu item or
double-click on the folder name.  If the selected folder is the same as
the viewed folder, this command just beeps.
.LI "Copy..."
Copies the selected messages to the selected folder.
.LI "Extract..."
Creates a file from the selected message.
.LI "Print"
Prints the selected messages.
.LI "Open folder"
Opens the currently selected folder.
.LI "Open folder in new"
Opens the currently selected folder in a new main window.
.LI "Deliver mail"
Incorporates new mail into your inbox folder.
.LI "Exit"
Closes the main \*Ldxmail\*O window.  If the main window being closed is
the only main \*Ldxmail\*O window on the screen, invoking this menu item
exits \*Ldxmail\*O.
.LE
.PP
\f2Edit Menu\*O
.VL 4m
.LI "Delete"
Places the selected messages in the wastebasket folder for deletion; if no
messages are currently selected, this item is disabled.  However, \*Ldxmail\*O
does not remove the messages from the current folder until you close
and reopen the original folder, select the Commit Changes menu item, or
double-click on the folder name.  You can move the messages back to
their original folder by selecting the ``Undo move/delete'' menu item.
.LI "Undo move/delete"
Undoes any move or delete operations for the selected messages; if no
messages are currently selected, this item is disabled. Once you commit
changes to messages by reopening the folder, selecting the Commit
Changes menu item, or double-clicking on the folder name, you cannot
undo the changes.
.LI "Copy to clipboard"
Copies a mail message (or part of one) to a clipboard, for example, a
Create-Send Window.  To perform this operation, open the message
you want to copy, mark the beginning of the block of text by clicking
on it with MB1, then drag the end to the end of the block of text.
Select Copy to Clipboard from the Edit menu, then place the pointer
in the clipboard (window) and press MB2.
.LI "Select all"
Selects all messages from the Message Index pane.
.LE
.PP
\f2Pick Menu\*O
.PP
The Pick menu lets you select, define, and manipulate groups of
messages.  Groups of messages, called sequences, further organize
messages within a folder.  For example, you can create sequences that
consist of all of the messages that meet some common criterion (such as
those to or from a certain person, received on  a certain date,
pertaining to a certain subject, or containing a specific word).
.PP
Message sequences and their names are specific to folders; therefore, the same
sequence name can exist in multiple folders.   In each folder, all
messages belong to a predefined sequence called all.
Only one sequence can be displayed at a time; its name is next to the
folder name in the title bar above the message list,  When you view
messages, the next and  previous messages are defined in relation to
the current sequence.
.PP
The Pick menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Pick from selected folder ..."
Displays the Pick dialog box, which lets you specify  criteria for
selecting messages from any folder and creating a new sequence.
.LI "Pick from opened folder ..."
Displays the Pick dialog box, which lets you specify  criteria for
selecting messages from the current folder and creating a new sequence.
.LI "Create new sequence..."
Lets you specify the name of a new sequence. The sequence does not
contain messages until you explicitly add some.
The sequence name must begin with an alphabetic character and should
not contain any non-alphanumeric characters (such as punctuation marks).
.LI "Open sequence"
Displays the last specified sequence or one that you select from the
submenu.  This item is disabled until the  folder contains sequences
other than all.
.LI "Add to sequence"
Adds selected messages to a sequence that you select from the submenu.
This item is disabled until the folder contains sequences other than all.
.LI "Remove from sequence"
Removes selected messages from a sequence that you select from the submenu.
This item is disabled until the folder contains sequences other than all.
.LI "Delete sequence"
Removes a sequence that you select from the submenu.  The messages themselves
are not deleted; they are still part of the folder's all sequence,
.LE
.PP
\f2Create-Send Menu\*O
.PP
The Create-Send menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "New message"
Displays a Create-Send Window that allows you to compose a new message.
.LI "File"
Displays the File Selection dialog box, which lets you send an existing
file as a mail message.  Once the File Selection dialog box is dismissed,
\*Ldxmail\*O displays a Create-Send Window whose body is the specified file.
.IP
To send a DDIF or DTIF file, use the Create-Send
menu option and select the File option. (DDIF or DTIF files are displayed
graphically and can not be edited.)
.LI "Reply"
Creates a Create-Send Window in reply to the first selected message.
.LI "Forward"
Creates a Create-Send Window that contains the contents
of the selected message or messages.
.LI "Use as comp"
Creates a Create-Send Window that contains the
contents of the selected message.
This menu item is often used to compose a new message with the
contents of a message previously saved in the drafts folder.
.LE
.PP
\f2Read Menu\*O
.PP
The Read menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "In new"
Displays the selected message in a new Read Window,
regardless of whether a default Read Window is already displayed.
.LI "In default"
Displays the selected message in the default Read Window.  If a Read Window
is not displayed, \*Ldxmail\*O creates a new Read Window automatically.
You can also invoke this command by double-clicking on the envelope icon
for the appropriate message.
.LI "In window #"
Displays a submenu that lets you display the selected message in one of
several already displayed Read Windows.
.LI "New mail"
Checks to see if any new mail has arrived.  If new mail has arrived,
\*Ldxmail\*O incorporates the new mail and displays the first message in the
automatically created default Read Window.  If no new mail has arrived,
\*Ldxmail\*O displays a dialog box that says ``No new mail.'' The
\*Ldxmail\*O program beeps only if you have selected the ``Beep instead of
putting up a No New Mail dialog box'' option in Modify Mail Profile in the
Customize Window.  The default is no beep.
.LI "New mail in new"
Checks to see if any new mail has arrived.  If new mail has arrived,
\*Ldxmail\*O incorporates the new mail and displays the first message
in a new Read Window that is created automatically.  If no new mail has
arrived, \*Ldxmail\*O displays a dialog box that says "No new mail." The
\*Ldxmail\*O program beeps only if you have selected the "Beep instead of
putting up a No New Mail dialog box" option in the Customize Window.
The default is no beep.
.LE
.PP
\f2Maintenance Menu\*O
.PP
The Maintenance menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Create folder..."
Creates a new folder and displays a dialog box that prompts for the new
folder name.
.LI "Empty wastebasket"
Deletes the messages previously placed in the wastebasket folder with the
\*LDelete\*O command.
.LI "Delete folder..."
Deletes the selected folder and displays a Caution dialog box that prompts
for verification.
.LI "Show subfolders"
Opens a mail drawer to display the folders contained there.
.LI "Hide Subfolders"
Closes a mail drawer and makes the folders contained there invisible.
.LI "Commit changes"
Removes from the message list of the current folder any message that
you previously marked to delete or move.
When you close and reopen a folder or double-click on a folder name,
\*Ldxmail\*O invokes this command automatically.
.LI "Renumber messages"
Renumbers the messages in the viewed folder starting from 1 and
incrementing by 1 for each following message.
.LI "Sort by date"
Sorts the messages in the folder into increasing order by date.
.LI "Rescan folder"
Causes \*Ldxmail\*O to check and make sure its information about the
folder is correct.  This command can be useful if you have invoked
\*Lmh\*O commands directly from the command line while \*Ldxmail\*O is running.
.LI "Graft folder"
Brings up a dialog box that allows you to rename a folder. There must not
already be a folder with the new name.
.LI "Invalidate cache on exit"
It is possible for a mail folder to get into a state in which the messages
don't match the numbers. (This could happen if \*Ldxmail\*O and \*LMH\*O were
run simultaneously.) This option will correct this state once \*Ldxmail\*O is
exited and restarted.
.LE
.PP
\f2Customize Menu\*O
.PP
The Customize menu contains the following item:
.VL 4m
.LI "Modify mail profile"
Displays the Customize dialog box, which lets you modify characteristics of
\*Ldxmail\*O.  The customize options are:
.ML
.LI
Skip to next message upon deleting current one.
.LI
Skip to next message upon moving current one.
.LI
Commit changes in a folder upon closing it.
.LI
Renumber messages in a folder after every commit.
.LI
Put deleted messages into wastebasket instead of deleting immediately.
.LI
Incorporate new messages when invoking Show Unopened Buttons
.LI
Affect the current message if no messages are selected.
.LI
Beep instead of putting up a No New Mail dialog box.
.LE
.LE
.SS Global Commands Pane
Global Command buttons displayed in the \*Ldxmail\*O window are:
.VL 4m
.LI "New mail"
Checks to see if any new mail has arrived.  If new mail has arrived,
\*Ldxmail\*O adds the new mail to the inbox folder and displays the first
message in the default Read Window.  If the default Read Window does not exist,
\*Ldxmail\*O creates one automatically.  If no new mail has arrived,
\*Ldxmail\*O displays a dialog box that says ``No new mail.'' The
\*Ldxmail\*O program beeps only if you have selected the ``Beep instead of
putting up a No New Mail Dialog Box'' option in the Customize window. The
default is no beep.
.IP
When a PostScript, DDIF, or DTIF message is read, you are given the option
of displaying it as a graphic. If you choose not to read a PostScript message
as a graphic, it is displayed as ASCII text. If you choose not to read a
DDIF or DTIF file as a graphic, it is displayed as compressed uuencoded ASCII
text.
.LI "Create-Send"
Displays a Create-Send Window that allows you to compose a new message.
.IP
You can use Create-Send to send a PostScript file. When the Create-Send Window
appears, use the Include file... function of its File pull-down menu to
include the PostScript file below the mail header.
.LI "Commit changes"
Removes from the message list of the current folder any message that
you previously marked to delete or move.
When you close and reopen a folder or double-click on a folder name,
\*Ldxmail\*O invokes this command automatically.
.LI "Rescan folder"
Causes \*Ldxmail\*O to check and make sure its information about the
folder is correct.  This command can be useful if you have invoked
\*Lmh\*O commands directly from the command line while \*Ldxmail\*O is running.
(See also ``Invalidate cache on exit,'' above.)
.LE
.PP
.SS Message Index and Message Commands Panes
These Panes are parts of the \*Ldxmail\*O window as described above in the
section ``MAIN WINDOW,'' above.
.PP
To specify the message or messages to be affected by commands
in the Message Commands Pane or in one of the several \*Ldxmail\*O menus,
first select the message or messages in the Message Index Pane.
.PP
\f2Message Index Pane\*O
.PP
To select a single message in the Message Index Pane, click MB1 (mouse button
1) on the message. To highlight a range of messages, you can follow one of two
procedures:
.AL
.LI
Place the pointer on the first message to be selected.
.LI
Press MB1.
.LI
Drag the pointer to the last message to be selected.
.LI
Release MB1.
.LE
.PP
Or:
.AL
.LI
Place the pointer on the first message to be selected.
.LI
Click MB1.
.LI
Place the pointer on the last message to be selected.
.LI
Hold down the Shift key and click MB1.
.LE
.PP
To add a message to the current selection, follow this procedure:
.AL
.LI
Place the pointer on the icon of the message to be included.
.LI
Hold the Shift key and click MB1.
.LE
.PP
To remove messages from the current selection, follow this procedure:
.AL
.LI
Place the pointer on the first message to be removed.
.LI
Hold the Shift key and drag MB1 up or down.
.LE
.PP
To view the contents of a message listed in the Message Index Pane, place the
pointer anywhere on the message and double-click MB1.  he contents of the
message are displayed in a Read Window.
.PP
The selected messages are the same as the highlighted messages, if any.
The current message is marked with a plus sign (+), except when
it is open in a Read menu (when it is marked with an open envelope).
The current message is the last message viewed in the
default Read Window within the current folder.
.PP
\f2Message Commands Pane\*O
.PP
The Message Commands Pane contains command buttons that act on selected
messages:
.VL 4m
.LI "Deliver mail"
Incorporates new mail into your inbox folder.
.LI "Reply"
Creates a Create-Send Window in reply to the first selected message.
.LI "Forward"
Creates a Create-Send Window whose body is initialized to be the contents
of the selected messages.
.LI "Print"
Prints the selected messages, using \*Llpr\*O, to the default printer.
.LI "Move"
Moves the message to the selected folder.  However, \*Ldxmail\*O does not
remove the message from the original folder until you close and reopen
the folder, select the Commit Changes menu item, or double-click on the
open folder name.  For example, you can remove a message moved out of
inbox by closing and reopening inbox, selecting Commit Changes, or by
double-clicking on inbox.  If the selected folder is the same as the
viewed folder, this command just beeps.  You can move the messages back
to the current folder by selecting the Undo move/delete menu item.
.LI "Delete"
Places the selected messages in the wastebasket folder for deletion.  However,
\*Ldxmail\*O does not remove the selected messages from the current folder
until you close and reopen the original folder, select the Commit Changes
menu item, or double-click on the folder name.  You can move the messages
back to their original folder by selecting the Undo move/delete menu item.
.LE
.SH READ WINDOWS
.PP
Most Read Window command buttons are the same as the Message Command Pane
buttons of the same name.  However, the Read Window command buttons affect the
viewed message instead of the selected message, and there are three additional
command buttons:
.VL 4m
.LI "Next"
Displays the message after the message displayed currently.
.LI "Previous"
Displays the message before the message displayed currently.
.LI "Close"
Closes the Read Window.
.LI "Reply"
Allows you to reply to the message displayed in the Read Window.
.LI "Forward"
Allows you to forward the message displayed in the Read Window.
.LI "Print"
Allows you to print the message displayed in the Read Window.
.LI "Move"
Allows you to move the message displayed in the Read Window to a mail folder.
.LI "Delete"
Allows you to delete the message displayed in the Read Window.
.LE
.PP
Less commonly used functions are available only through the menu bar.
The menu bar contains the following menus:
.PP
.oS
File
Edit
Sequences
Create-Send
Read
.oE
.SS File Menu
File menu items unique to the Read Window are as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "Make default window"
Specifies that the current Read Window is the default Read Window.
.LI "Close"
Closes the Read Window.
.LE
.SS Edit Menu
Edit menu items unique to the Read Window are as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "Select all"
Selects all text displayed in the Read Window.
.LI "Edit message"
Specifies that the message in the Read Window can be modified.
.LI "Save changes"
Saves any changes made to the message displayed in the
Read Window after invoking the
Edit message menu item.
.LE
.SS Read Menu
.VL 4m
.LI "Next selected"
Displays the next message selected from the main \*Ldxmail\*O
window in the current Read Window.
.LI "Previous selected"
Displays the previous message selected from the main \*Ldxmail\*O
window in the current Read Window.
.LI "Next in folder"
Displays the next message listed in the main \*Ldxmail\*O
window in the current Read Window.
.LI "Previous in folder"
Displays the previous message listed in the main \*Ldxmail\*O
window in the current Read Window.
.LE
.SH CREATE-SEND WINDOWS
.PP
The buttons associated with Create-Send Windows are:
.VL 4m
.LI "Close"
Closes the Create-Send Window without taking any further action.  If changes
have been made, \*Ldxmail\*O displays a Caution dialog box prompting for
confirmation or cancellation.
.LI "Reset"
Clears the Create-Send Window.
.LI "Editor"
Invokes the editor specified in the resource file ~/DXMail. See Chapter 9
of the
\*EDECwindows User's Guide\*O.
.LI "Save into drafts"
Saves the message contained in the Create-Send Window in the drafts folder.
You can later view, edit, and send the message with the \*LUse as comp\*O
command.
.LI "Send"
Sends the message contained in the Create-Send Window.
If any errors appear in the message header, \*Ldxmail\*O
displays a mail message containing this composition and a description
of the error.  The Send command does not close the Create-Send Window.
.LE
.PP
The menu bar in a Create-Send Window contains the following menus:
.PP
.oS
File
Edit
.oE
.SS File Menu
.VL 4m
.LI "Send"
Performs the same function as the Send button.
.LI "Save"
Performs the same function as the Save button.
.LI "Extract..."
Copies a message to a file.
.LI "Include file..."
Inserts a file into the message.
.LI "Reset"
Performs the same function as the Reset button.
.LI "Quit"
Performs the same function as the Close button.
.LI "Editor"
Invokes the editor specified in the resource file ~/DXMail. See Chapter 9
of the
\*EDECwindows User's Guide\*O.
.LE
.SS Edit Menu
.VL 4m
.LI "Select all"
Selects all text displayed in the Create-Send Window.
.LE
.SH CONVERTING OLD MAIL FOLDERS
.PP
If you have been using the \*Lmail\*O(1) program to read your mail,
you can convert your existing folders into \*Ldxmail\*O folders
with the following command:
.PP
.sS
\*Linc\*L +\*Vfoldername \*L\-file \*Vfilename\*O
.sE
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vfoldername\*O"
Specifies the name that is to be used for the \*Ldxmail\*O folder.
.LI "\*Vfilename\*O"
Specifies the name of the existing mail folder.
.LE
.PP
Note that you must run \*Linc\*O to access mail if you have been using
the Berkeley mail handler.  For more information, see \*Linc\*O(1).
.SH MAIL ALIASES
.PP
The \*Ldxmail\*O command does not use your \*L.mailrc\*O file in your
home directory.  Therefore, \*Ldxmail\*O does not use the user mail
aliases that you have defined in that file.  However, \*Ldxmail\*O
does make use of the global alias files that \*Lsendmail\*O uses.
.PP
To define an alias file to be used with \*Ldxmail\*O, follow this procedure:
.AL
.LI
Create the Mail directory and a skeleton \*L\&.mh_profile\*O file
by invoking \*Ldxmail\*O.  This skeletal \*L\&.mh_profile\*O will
contain the following line:
.IP
.iS
\*LPath: Mail\*O
.iE
.LI
Edit the \*L\&.mh_profile\*O file to add the following three lines:
.IP
.iS
ali: \-alias \*Valiases\*O
send: \-alias \*Valiases\*O
whom: \-alias \*Valiases\*O
.iE
.LI
Create an alias file in your Mail directory with the name
specified in these lines.
.LI
In your alias file, add lines in the following format:
.IP
.iS
alias: person1, person2,....
.iE
.LE
.PP
The person to whom you assigned an alias can have another alias,
and you can mix previously defined aliases and people on the same line.
However, because the file is read from top to bottom,
you must make sure that aliases used in other aliases have already
been defined in the file.
.SH X DEFAULTS
.PP
The \*Ldxmail\*O application uses the values in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O
file that were active when you logged in and uses the appropriate resource
specification to customize the appearance or characteristics of its displayed
\*Ldxmail\*O window.  The format for a resource specification in
the \*L.Xdefaults\*O file is:
.PP
.sS
\*L[\*Vname\*L*]\*Vresource\*L:  \*Vvalue\*O
.sE
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Specifies the application name or the name string that restricts the
resource assignment to that application or to a component of an application.
If you do not specify this argument, the resource assignment is globally
available to all X applications.
.LI "\*Vresource\*O"
Specifies the resource.
.LI "\*Vvalue\*O"
Specifies the value that is to be assigned to the resource.
.LE
.PP
For more information, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.PP
Because each toolkit-based application can consist of a combination of
widgets (for example, push buttons and a scroll bar), you can form the
name string by adding widget class and name identifiers to the string.
For further information about adding class and name identifiers, see
\*LX\*O(1X).
.PP
For \*Ldxmail\*O, the available class identifiers are:
.PP
.oS
XmMainWindow
XmSeparatorGadget
XmPanedWindow
XmScrolledWindow
XmDrawingArea
XmRowColumn
Item
XmScrollBar
XmPushButton
XmLabel
XmForm
XmFrame
XmBulletinBoard
XmText
XmSash
XmCascadeButton
XmSeparator
XmSash
.oE
.PP
For \*Ldxmail\*O, the available name identifiers are:
.PP
.oS
mainWindow
workArea
folderArea
innerFolderArea
vScrollBar
hScrollBar
folderCommandBar
readNewMail
createSend
messagePane
messageForm
messageArea
messageButtonsArea
messageButton
messageScroll
innerMsgArea
messageCommandBar
menuBar
sendWindow
commandBar
confirm
createSend
customize
ddifHeaders
pick
prompt
read
titlebar
.oE
.PP
In addition to the general resources listed in \*LX\*O(1X), the resources
available for \*Ldxmail\*O are:
.VL 4m
.LI "send.geometry"
Specifies the initial geometry (window size and screen location)
for the Create-Send Window.
For more information about the geometry specification and screen
coordinate system, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.LI "main.geometry"
Specifies the initial geometry (window size and screen location)
for the main \*Ldxmail\*O window.
.LI "read.geometry"
Specifies the initial geometry (window size and screen location)
for the Read Window.
.LI "pick.geometry"
Specifies the initial geometry (window size and screen location)
for the Pick window.
.LI "PrintCommand"
Specifies the command to be executed to print a message.  (Standard out
and standard error must be redirected explicitly.)  The default is:
.IP
.iS
\*Llpr > /dev/null 2 > /dev/null
.iE
.IP
This command is used to print when the ``Entire Message'' option
is selected.  It is also used for printing when ``Body Only'' option
is selected if the StrippedPrintCommand resource is not specified.
.LI "StrippedPrintCommand"
Specifies the command to be executed if the ``Body Only'' option is
selected under ``Print''.  It is also used for executing the print
command when ``Entire Message'' option is selected if the PrintCommand
resource is not specified.
.IP
Each specification included in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O file for the translations
resource modifies a key setting for the editor that \*Ldxmail\*O uses.
For more information about key and mouse specifications in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O
file, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.LE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The \*Ldxmail\*O application requires Version 6 of \*Lmh\*O.  If a line in the
\*L\&.mh_profile\*O starts with \*LCurrent-Folder\*O, you have been using
Version 4 or earlier.  To convert to Version 6, remove that line.
For more information, refer to \*Lmh\*O(1).
.PP
Sequence names and message lists together cannot exceed 1024
characters.  In practice, this means that sequences can have a maximum
of 200 messages.
.PP
When sending mail, the dashes under the Subject: line are required.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L/usr/bin/X11/app-defaults/DXMail\*O"
.LI "\*L~/DXMail\*O"
.LI "\*L~/.mh_profile\*O"
.LI "\*L~/.Xdefaults\*O"
.LI "\*L~/Mail/*\*L\*O"
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Linc\*O(1),
\*Lmh\*O(1),
\*LX\*O(1X),
\*EDECwindows User's Guide\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
