.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dxnotepad.1X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 20:13:01 $
.\"
.TH dxnotepad 1X
.SH NAME
\*Ldxnotepad\*O \- DECwindows text editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ldxnotepad\*O [ \*Vflags\*O ] [ \*Vfile\*O ]
.sE
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vfile\*O"
Specifies a file to open at startup. If you omit the file name,
you can open or create a file from within \*Ldxnotepad\*O.
.LE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-bd \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the window's border (color displays only).
This overrides the system default defined in the Session Manager's Customize
Window dialog box.
.LI "\*L\-bg \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the window's background (color displays only).
This overrides the system default defined in the Session Manager's Customize
Window dialog box.
.LI "\*L\-d \*Vdispname\*O"
Specifies the display screen on which \*Ldxnotepad\*O displays its window.
If the display option is not specified, \*Ldxnotepad\*O uses the display
screen specified by your DISPLAY environment variable.  The display option
has the format \*Vhostname\*L:\*Vnumber\*O.  Using two colons (::) instead
of one (:) indicates that DECnet is to be used for transport.  The default
is :0.  For more information, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.LI "\*L\-display \*Vdispname\*O"
Has the same function as the \*L\-d\*O option.
.LI "\*L\-fg \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the text in digital mode
and the color of the tick marks in analog mode (color displays only).
This overrides the system default defined in the Session Manager's Customize
Window dialog box.
.LI "\*L\-fn \*Vfont\*O"
Specifies the font used as the output font in digital mode.  Any fixed-width
font can be used.  The default is 6x10.
.LI "\*L\-geometry"
Specifies the width, length, and location of the \*Ldxnotepad\*O window.
If the geometry argument is not specified, \*Ldxnotepad\*O uses default values.
The geometry option has the format
[\*Vwidth\*Ox\*Vlength\*O][{+-}\*Vx\*O{+-}\*Vy\*O].
For more information about the screen coordinate system, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "Notepad in DECwindows"
.iX "Text editor" "DECwindows"
.iX "DECwindows text editor"
.iX "DECwindows Interface" "text editor"
.iX "DECwindows Interface" "notepad"
The \*Ldxnotepad\*O command displays a window where you can edit a file
or a text buffer that you can later save as a file.  At startup, the
\*Ldxnotepad\*O window consists of the following three areas:
.VL 4m
.LI "Title Bar"
Displays the name of the window, the name of the file currently being edited,
and window manager buttons that move and resize the
window and shrink the window to an icon.  For more information, see
\*Lmwm\*O(1X).
.LI "Menu Bar"
Lists the available \*Ldxnotepad\*O menus.
.LI "Edit Window"
Displays the text that you are editing or creating.
.LE
.SH MENUS
.PP
The \*Ldxnotepad\*O window contains the following menus:
.PP
.oS
File
Edit
Search
Navigate
Customize
.oE
.SS File Menu
The File menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "New"
Creates a new \*Ldxnotepad\*O window.
.LI "Open..."
Displays a dialog box that lets you specify the file to open.
.LI "Open Selected"
Opens the file whose name has been selected in
any application window on the screen.
.LI "Include..."
Displays a dialog box that lets you specify a file to write into the
current buffer.  The included file appears at the cursor's current position.
.LI "Save"
Saves the contents of the Edit window in a file.  If the file is untitled
when Save is selected, \*Ldxnotepad\*O
displays a dialog box that prompts for the file name.
.LI "Save As..."
Automatically displays a dialog box that prompts for the file name
under which to save the contents of the buffer.
.LI "Revert"
Cancels all edits made since the last time \*Ldxnotepad\*O saved
edits. Edits are saved when you choose the Save menu item from the
File menu and when you exit from an editing session.
.LI "Quit"
Ends the current editing session without saving changes and closes the
\*Ldxnotepad\*O window.
.LI "Exit"
Ends the current editing session, saving the modified text in the output file.
.LE
.SS Edit Menu
The Edit menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Undo"
Undoes the last edit.  Each time you select this menu item,
each previous edit is undone.
.LI "Redo"
Redoes the last edit.  Each time you select this menu item,
each edit that has been undone is redone.
.LI "Undo..."
Displays the Undo dialog box that allows you to undo and redo sequences
of edits.
.LI "Cut"
Removes text selected in the Edit window and moves it to the clipboard.
This text can be retrieved with the Paste menu item.
.LI "Copy"
Copies text selected from the Edit window to the text buffer. You
can retrieve this text with the Paste menu item.
.LI "Paste"
Inserts text previously cut or copied to the clipboard.
.LI "Clear"
Deletes selected text without copying it to the clipboard.
.LI "Select All"
Marks the entire buffer as the current selection, as if you had
selected it with the mouse and pointer.
.LI "Filter Selection..."
Displays a dialog box in which you can specify a command
through which to process selected text.
The command operates on the text
and writes the output to the original location in the
buffer.  You can specify multiple commands, using
semicolons and pipes as you would on a command line.
You can also select a blank area and specify a command that
produces output without requiring input.
Note that, as usual, writing into a selection area replaces
the selection.
.LI "Fill"
Reorganizes selected text so that the maximum number of whole words
fits within a 72 character line width, inserting carriage
return characters at the end of each 72-character line.  If your
\*Ldxnotepad\*O window width is less than 72 characters, the fill
operation can leave some lines broken, where the carriage return occurs.
.LI "Sort"
Sorts the selected text in ascending alphanumeric order, as if by
executing the \*Lsort\*O command.
.LI "Indent+4"
Moves the left margin for a selected block of text four columns to the right.
.LI "Indent-4"
Moves the left margin for a selected block of text four columns to the left.
.LE
.SS Search Menu
The Search menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Next Selected"
Searches from the current insertion point to the end of the file for the
next occurrence of a string selected from any window on the screen.
.LI "Previous Selected"
Searches from the current insertion point to the beginning of the file
for the next occurrence of a string selected from any window on the screen.
.LI "Next..."
Displays a dialog box that prompts for a search string. The Next button
finds the next occurrence of the string (moving forward); the Previous
button finds the previous occurrence of the string (moving backward).
The default direction is forward.
.LI "Previous..."
Displays a dialog box that prompts for a search string. The Next button
finds the next occurrence of the string (moving forward); the Previous button
finds the previous occurrence of the string (moving backward).
The default direction is backward.
.LI "Next Incremental..."
Searches from the initial search position to the bottom of the
buffer for a string of characters.  You can change the search string
during the operation; each time you add or delete a
character, \*Ldxnotepad\*O returns to the initial position and
highlights the next occurrence of the pattern now specified.
.LI "Previous Incremental..."
Searches from the initial search position to the top of the
buffer for a string of characters.  You can change the search string
during the operation; each time you add or delete a
character, \*Ldxnotepad\*O returns to the initial position and
highlights the next occurrence of the pattern now specified.
.LI "Replace Once..."
Displays a dialog box in which you enter an existing string and the
string that you want to substitute.  Searching from the insertion point
forward, \*Ldxnotepad\*O finds
the next occurrence of the existing string. Click on the Yes button to
replace the string and move to the next occurrence; click on the No
button to skip to the next occurrence without making the replacement.
.LI "Replace Within Selected Area"
Displays a dialog box in which you enter an existing string and the string
that you want to substitute.  The operation replaces all occurrences
of the string within a selected block of text.
.LI "Replace All..."
Displays a dialog box in which you enter an existing string and the
string that you want to substitute.  The operation replaces all occurrences
of the string in the buffer.
.LE
.SS Navigate Menu
The Navigate menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Go to Top"
Moves the cursor to the top of the buffer.
.LI "Go to Bottom"
Moves the cursor to the bottom of the buffer.
.LI "Go to Selected Line Number"
Moves the cursor to the line whose number has been selected somewhere on the screen.
.LI "Go to Line..."
Displays dialog box that prompts for the line number.
When the line number is specified, the cursor moves to the beginning
of the line.
.LI "Split View"
Divides the current view of the file into two views of that file. The
first time you use this option, it splits the window into two views.   Each view
has its own scroll bars, so that you can work with two sections of the
file at once.  Further splits affect the view in which the cursor is active.
.LI "Delete View"
Removes the view in which the cursor is active.
.LE
.SS Customize Menu
The Customize menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Case Sensitive Searches"
Specifies whether \*Ldxnotepad\*O distinguishes between uppercase
and lowercase occurrences of text characters when searching
for a string.  When the button is set to On, a search finds all
occurrences of a character.  When the button is set to Off, a search
finds only occurrences whose case matches the case in which you enter
the search string.
.LI "Word Wrap"
Specifies whether \*Ldxnotepad\*O automatically starts a new line when
you reach the right margin.  When the button is set to On,  word wrapping is
automatic.  When the button is set to Off, you must press the Return
key at the end of each line. Note that \*Ldxnotepad\*O does not insert
carriage return characters as it wraps the line;
with word wrapping on, you can create a line that looks like a
paragraph in your \*Ldxnotepad\*O edit window, but that a printer
interprets as a single long line.
.LI "Font..."
Displays a dialog box in which you choose font attributes and see a sample
of the resulting font; the Apply button applies the font you select to
your buffer.
.LI "Save Attributes"
Saves the values that you specified for options on the Customize
menu.  These values are stored in the file .notepad.dat in your home
directory; they will be used the next time you invoke \*Ldxnotepad\*O.
.LI "Restore Attributes"
Restores the last saved values for options on the Customize menu.
.LE
.SS Help Menu
The Help Menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Overview"
Provides overview information on using the application.
.LI "About"
Provides product information about the application.
.LE
.SH JOURNALS
.PP
The \*Ldxnotepad\*O editor records every keystroke in a journal file.  When
you save the file you are editing, the journal file is deleted.
If an editing session terminates unexpectedly (due to a system crash,
for example), the edits recorded in the journal file can be restored.
.PP
When you attempt to edit a file whose journal file still exists,
the Recover dialog box asks whether to apply the previous edits to the input
file.  Click on the OK button to restore the edits; click on the No button
to forego applying the edits and delete the journal file.
.PP
If an editing session is interrupted before you have saved the editing
buffer as a file and assigned it a file name, \*Ldxnotepad\*O
assigns the journal file under the name of the file you were editing,
with the suffix JNL (unless you have changed the default name, using a
\*Ldxnotepad\*O resource).
.PP
To recover, first locate the journal file.  You can recognize it
in your directory because it has the form of \*VAAAXXXXXXCCC\*O, where
\*VAAA\*O is your journalNamePrefix, \*VXXXXXX\*O the name of the file
you were editing, and \*VCCC\*O is your journalNameSuffix.   Invoke
\*Ldxnotepad\*O, specifying an input file whose name is the number portion of
the default journal file name.  A dialog box asks whether
to recover the crashed session.  To restore the edits, answer yes.
.PP
For information about specifying the journalNamePrefix and the
journalNameSuffix, see the X DEFAULTS section.
.\"The journal entries consist of changes.
.\"Currently changes are defined by contiguous keystrokes at a specific 
.\"location.  These changes are also delimited by a delete.
.\"The previous change is not written until a new change is started.
.\"Therefore, the last series of contiguous keystrokes since the last delete,
.\"will not appear in the journal.  
.SH X DEFAULTS
.PP
The \*Ldxnotepad\*O application uses the values in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O
file when you logged in and uses the appropriate resource specification
values to customize the appearance of the \*Ldxnotepad\*O window.
The format for a resource specification in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O file is:
.PP
.sS
[\*Vname\*L*]\*Vresource\*L:  \*Vvalue\*O
.sE
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Specifies the application name or the name string that restricts the
resource assignment to that application or to a component of an application.
If this argument is not specified, the resource assignment is globally
available to all X applications.
.LI "\*Vresource\*O"
Specifies the resource.
.LI "\*Vvalue\*O"
Specifies the value that is to be assigned to the resource.
.LE
.PP
Because each toolkit-based application can consist of a combination of
widgets (for example, push buttons and a scroll bar), you can form the
name string by adding widget class and name identifiers to the string.
For further information about adding class and name identifiers,
see \*LX\*O(1X).
.PP
For \*Ldxnotepad\*O, the available class identifiers are:
.PP
.oS
XmLabel
XmMainWindow
XmPushButton
XmRowColumn
XmScrollbar
XmText
.oE
.PP
For \*Ldxnotepad\*O, the available name identifiers are:
.VL 4m
.LI "notepad"
The name of the application.
.LI "textwindow"
View of the edit window.  Each edit window can have one or more
views into a text buffer or file.
.LE
.PP
In addition to the general resources listed in \*LX\*O(1X), the resources
available for \*Ldxnotepad\*O are:
.VL 4m
.LI "EnableBackups"
Specifies that the original file is saved as the backup file.  The name
of the backup file is constructed by prepending the original file name
with the string contained within the \*LbackupNamePrefix\*O, and appended
with the \*LbackupNameSuffix\*O.  The default is On.
.LI "BackupNamePrefix"
Specifies the prefix of the backup file name.
.LI "BackupNameSuffix"
Specifies the suffix of the backup file name.
.LI "Geometry"
Specifies the geometry (window size and location) to be used as the
default for the \*Ldxnotepad\*O window.  For more information about
the geometry specification and screen coordinate system, see \*LX\*O(1X).
If Geometry is not specified, a default built-in geometry is used.
.LI "filter"
Specifies a text filter to add as an option to the Edit menu.  The
resource value has two parts, separated by one or more space or tab
characters: the option name to add to the menu and
the command to execute when that option is selected.
.LI "journalNamePrefix"
Specifies the prefix of the journal file name.
.LI "journalNameSuffix"
Specifies the suffix of the journal file name.
.LE
.PP
Each specification included for the translations resource in
the \*L.Xdefaults\*O file modifies a key setting for the editor that
\*Ldxnotepad\*O uses.  For more information about key and mouse
specifications in the \*L\&.Xdefaults file, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Large numbers of certain edit functions tend to degrade performance over time.
If there is a noticeable decrease in response time,
save the file; saving a file resets \*Ldxnotepad\*O's internal state.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L~/.Xdefaults\*O"
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LX\*O(1X),
\*Lmwm\*O(1X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
