.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\" 
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" 
.TH dxpaint 1X
.SH NAME
\*Ldxpaint\*O \- DECwindows bitmap editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Ldxpaint\*O [ \*Vflags\*O ]
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-bd \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the window's border (color displays only).
This overrides the system default defined in the Session Manager's Customize
Window dialog box.
.LI "\*L\-bg \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the window's background (color displays only).
This overrides the system default defined in the Session Manager's Customize
Window dialog box.
.LI "\*L\-d \*Vdispname\*O"
Specifies the display screen on which \*Ldxpaint\*O displays its window.  If
the display option is not specified, \*Ldxpaint\*O uses the display screen
specified by your DISPLAY environment variable.  The display option has the
format \*Vhostname\*L:\*Vnumber\*O.  Using two colons (::) instead of one (:)
indicates that DECnet is to be used for transport.  The default is :0.
For more information, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.LI "\*L\-display \*Vdispname\*O"
This option is the same as the \*L\-d\*O option.
.LI "\*L\-fg \*Vcolor\*O"
Specifies the color of the window's foreground (color displays only).
This overrides the system default defined in the Session Manager's Customize
Window dialog box.
.LI "\*L\-fn \*Vfont\*O"
Specifies the font used as the output font in digital mode.  Any
fixed-width font can be used.  The default is 6x10.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "Bitmap editor"
.iX "DECwindows bitmap editor"
.iX "DECwindows Interface" "bitmap editor"
.PP
The \*Ldxpaint\*O
application allows you to create and edit bitmap images (for example,
simple sketches or pictures).  These images are treated as a collection
of pixels.  By using different drawing tools, you can edit pixels to
create lines, shapes, and text.  The resulting bitmap image can then be
saved as a file, printed, or copied to another application.
.PP
For the bitmap image, the standard file format is Digital Document
Interchange Format (DDIF).  Therefore, you can also project these images
on your display with the DDIF Viewer.
.PP
The \*Ldxpaint\*O window offers a variety of art tools and basic shapes.
For example, you can work with a pencil, a paintbrush, a can of spray paint,
or a paint bucket.  The current tool is highlighted.  To make a tool current,
click on it.  Only one tool on the tool palette can be active at a time
and that tool remains active until you make another selection.
.SH MENUS
.PP
The \*Ldxpaint\*O application contains the following menus:
.PP
.oS
File
Edit
Text
Options
.oE
.SS File Menu
The File menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Open..."
Displays a dialog box in which you specify the file to open.
The dialog box displays the names of the graphics files in the current
directory.  To specify a graphics file not listed, type the file name.
.LI "Include..."
Displays a dialog box in which you specify the file to include in the
current picture.  The dialog box displays the names of the graphics
files in the current directory.
.LI "Save"
Saves the picture in the current file. If no file exists, \*Ldxpaint\*O
displays a dialog box that prompts for the file name.
.LI "Save As..."
Saves the picture in a file whose name you specify.
.LI "Print"
Prints the picture using the values previously set in the Print
dialog box.  If this is the first print request, the Print dialog
box is displayed.
.LI "Print ..."
Displays the Print dialog box (which allows you to specify a printer,
output format, and so forth) and prints the picture using these settings.
The output format can be ANSI2 (sixel) or PostScript.  If you are using
an LA50 printer, you must specify an aspect ratio of 2:1.
.LI "Exit"
Quits the current \*Ldxpaint\*O session and closes the \*Ldxpaint\*O window.
If no changes were saved, \*Ldxpaint\*O displays a Caution dialog box.
.LE
.SS Edit Menu
The \*LEdit\*O menu contains the following menu items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Undo/Redo"
Undoes or redoes the last paint operation.
.LI "Cut"
Clears the selection from the drawing window and copies it to the clipboard.
.LI "Copy"
Copies the image selected from the drawing window onto the clipboard.
.LI "Quick Copy"
Copies the image selected with the Selection Box tool to the center of
the canvas.
.LI "Paste"
Pastes an image from the clipboard into the drawing window.
.LI "Clear"
Erases any area previously selected with the selection box or scissors tool.
.LI "Invert"
Creates a negative image of the selection by displaying it in reverse video.
.LI "Crop"
Repositions the selection in the upper left corner of the window and
discards the rest of the painting.
.LI "Scale..."
Displays a dialog box that lets you scale a selection.
Enter a number less than 100 to shrink the selection or
a number greater than 100 to expand the selection.
.LI "Clear Window"
Erases the entire contents of the drawing window.
.LI "Select Window"
Selects the entire contents of the drawing window.
.LI "Scale Picture..."
Displays a dialog box that lets you scale the entire picture.  Enter
a number less than 100 to shrink the picture or a number greater than 100 to
expand the picture.
.LE
.SS Options Menu
The Options menu contains the following menu items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Picture Size..."
Displays a dialog box that lets you choose the size of the drawing window
and lets you choose the resolution for the picture.
.LI "Brushes..."
Displays a dialog box that lets you choose the size and shape of the paintbrush.
.LI "Line Width..."
Displays a dialog box that lets you choose the line thickness for the
shape to be drawn with the selected tool.
This selection affects lines, arcs, ellipses, circles, rectangles,
squares, strokes, and polygons.
.LI "Patterns..."
Displays a dialog box that provides a selection of designs that you can use
as border and fill patterns.  The foreground, background, and
"none" patterns are always available.  Click on Outline Pattern
to signal a change in the border pattern; click on Fill Pattern to signal
a change in the fill pattern.  Next, click on any of the patterns  (including
foreground, background, and "none") to select it as the border or fill pattern.
.LI "Edit Pattern..."
Displays a dialog box that lets you modify an existing pattern.  Before
choosing this menu item, you must indicate whether you are
customizing a border or a fill pattern by clicking on the appropriate
button in the Patterns dialog box.   Next, choose the pattern to edit.
The dialog box contains a magnified version of the pattern you chose
(16 pixels by 16 pixels).
.LI "Paletter..."
Displays a dialog box that lets you choose color for drawing by clicking
on color displayed in the dialog box.
.LI "Mix Color..."
Displays a dialog box that lets you create your own color.
The Color Model menu allows you to choose the color model to create your
own color.
Clicking on the "Add" button will add color to your platte dialog box.
.LI "Grid Size..."
Displays a dialog box that lets you choose a grid size.
.LI "Opaque"
Prevents background shapes from showing through the clear areas of
patterned objects in the foreground.  Opaque is the default.
.LI "Transparent"
Allows background shapes to show through the
clear areas of patterned objects in the foreground.
.LI "Paint View..."
Allows you to view only a portion of the picture in the drawing window.
.LI "Full View..."
Allows you to view the full picture in the drawing window without changing
the size of the drawing window.
.LI "Grid On/Off"
Turns a fixed snap grid on or off.  This option is used in alignment.
.LI "Zoom On/Off"
Magnifies a portion of the picture.  Displays a magnifying frame and a
Zoom window.  Drag the frame to the portion of the picture to be
magnified and release MB1.  The framed image appears in the Zoom window
and is magnified eight times.  To close the Zoom window, display the
Options menu and choose Zoom Off.
.LE
.SS Text Menu
The Text menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Family"
Allows you to choose from Courier, Times, and Helvetica fonts.
.LI "Size"
Specifies the point size.  Choose from 10, 12, 14, 18, and 24 points.
.LI "Style"
Specifies normal, italic, or bold typeface.
.LE
.SH X DEFAULTS
.PP
The \*Ldxpaint\*O application uses the values in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O file
when you logged in and uses the appropriate resource specification to
customize the appearance or characteristics of its displayed \*Ldxpaint\*O
window.  The format for a resource specification in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O
file is:
.PP
.sS
[\*Vname\*L*]\*Vresource\*L:  \*Vvalue\*O
.sE
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Specifies the application name or the name string that restricts the
resource assignment to that application or to a component of an application.
If this argument is not specified, the resource assignment is globally
available to all X applications.
.LI "\*Vresource\*O"
Specifies the resource.
.LI "\*Vvalue\*O"
Specifies the value that is to be assigned to the resource.
.LE
.PP
For more information, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.PP
Because each toolkit-based application can consist of a combination of
widgets (for example, push buttons and a scroll bar), you can form the
name string by adding widget class and name identifiers to the string.
For further information about adding class and name identifiers, see
\*LX\*O(1X).
.PP
For \*Ldxpaint\*O, the available class identifiers are:
.PP
.oS
paint
main_menu_bar
paint_v_scroll_bar
paint_h_scroll_bar
.oE
.PP
For \*Ldxpaint*O, the available name identifier is:
.PP
.oS
dxpaint
.oE
.PP
The general resources available for \*Ldxpaint\*O can be found in \*LX\*O(1X).
.PP
Each specification included in the \*L\.Xdefaults\*O file for the translations
resource modifies a key setting for the editor that \*Ldxpaint\*O uses.
For more information about key and mouse specifications in the
\*L.Xdefaults\*O file, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L~/.Xdefaults\*O"
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/DXpaint\*O"
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LX\*O(1X),
\*Lmwm\*O(1X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
