.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dxprint.1X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/07 22:20:51 $
.\" 
.TH dxprint 1X
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ldxprint\*O \- Capture and print screen image.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ldxprint\*O [ \*Vflags\*O ] [ \*Vfile\*O ]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "dxprint"
.iX "screen capture"
.iX "print Screen"
The dxprint (Print Screen) program allows you to capture the screen image
in printable form.
.PP
The available output formats are PostScript, Sixel, and DDIF (Digital Document
Interchange Format).
.PP
An optional time delay gives you time to rearrange the screen
to iconify or restack windows, or to give focus to the window
with the color map to be used for the capture.
.PP
Output is sent to the standard output unless \*Vfile\*O is supplied.
.PP
The \*L\-X\*O option displays the dxprint Graphical User Interface (GUI).
This reference page describes the dxprint command line interface. Use the
GUI help facility for help with the dxprint GUI.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.SS Usage Diagrams
.if n .PP
.sS
\*Ldxprint \-X\*O
.sE
.sS
\*Ldxprint\*O [\*L\-p\*O] [\*L\-b|G\*O] [\*L\-f\*O] [\*L\-r\*O]
[\*Vgeom*\*O] [\*L\-t\*O \*Vseconds\*O] [\*L\-P \*Vqueue\*O] \\
.nL
               [\*L\-P \*Vqueue\*O] [\*Vfile\*O]
.sE
.sS
\*Ldxprint\*O [\*L\-p\*O] \*L\-c\*O [\*L\-f\*O] [\*Lgeom*\*O]
[\*L\-t\*O \*Vseconds\*O] [\*L\-P \*Vqueue\*O] [\*Vfile\*O]
.sE
.sS
\*Ldxprint\*O \*L\-D\*O [\*L\-b|G\*O] [\*L\-r\*O] [\*Vgeom*\*O]
[\*L\-t\*O \*Vseconds\*O] [\*L\-P \*Vqueue\*O] [\*Vfile\*O]
.sE
.sS
\*Ldxprint\*O \*L\-D\*O \*L\-c\*O [\*Vgeom*\*O] [\*L\-t\*O \*Vseconds\*O]
[\*L\-P \*Vqueue\*O] [\*Vfile\*O]
.sE
.sS
\*Ldxprint\*O \*L\-s\*O [\*L\-b|G\*O] [\*L\-a\*O] [\*L\-r\*O] [\*Vgeom*\*O]
[\*L\-t\*O \*Vseconds\*O] [\*L\-T\*O \*Vn\*O] \\
.nL
               [\*L\-P \*Vqueue\*O] [\*Vfile\*O]
.sE
.sS
\*Ldxprint\*O \*L\-s\*O \*L\-c\*O [\*Vgeom*\*O] [\*L\-t\*O \*Vseconds\*O]
[\*L\-T\*O \*Vn\*O] [\*L\-P \*Vqueue\*O] [\*Vfile\*O]
.sE
.sS
.nL
    *\*Vgeom\*O is \*L\-x \*Vn \*L\-y \*Vn \*L\-h \*Vn \*L\-w \*Vn\*O
.sE
.PP
Consult the usage diagrams, above, to determine what combinations of flags are
permissible.
.SS Flags Specifying GUI and Time Delay
.if n .PP
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-X"
Brings up the dxprint graphical user interface from which you can
invoke help for more information.
.LI "\*L\-t \*Vinteger\*O"
Causes a wait of \*Vinteger\*O seconds before the actual capture occurs, so
that the screen arrangement can be changed prior to the capture. If deleted,
no delay will occur.
.LE
.SS Flags Specifying Area to Capture
.if n .PP
Specify all four of the following options for a partial capture.
Specify none of the options for a full screen capture.
There are no default values for these options.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-x \*Vinteger\*O"
Defines the upper left corner of the capture region in
pixel units from the left edge of the screen active area.
.LI "\*L\-y \*Vinteger\*O"
Defines the upper left corner of the capture region in
pixel units from the top edge of the screen active area.
.LI "\*L\-w \*Vinteger\*O"
Defines the lower right corner of the capture region in
pixel units from the left edge of the capture region
(in other words, its width).
.LI "\*L\-h \*Vinteger\*O"
Defines the lower right corner of the capture region in
pixel units from the top edge of the capture region
(in other words, its height).
.LE
.nP
.SS Flags Specifying Output File Format
.if n .PP
If no output-specifying flags are used, the default is \*L\-pf\*O
(PostScript, rotated/scaled to fit page).
.PP
PostScript is the only output format that is by default sent to the standard
output. DDIF and Sixel formats are binary and must be saved to a file, with a
command such as:
.PP
.sS
\*Ldxprint \-s \*Vfile\*O
.sE
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-s\*O"
Creates the output file in Sixel format. A Sixel file can be viewed in a
DECterm by using the \*Lcat\*O command, or it can be printed on most types of
printers from Digital Equipment Corporation.
.LI "\*L\-p\*O"
Default.  Creates the output file in PostScript format.
.LI "\*L\-D\*O"
Creates the output file in DDIF (CDA) format. A
DDIF file can be viewed with the CDA viewer (\*L/usr/bin/X11/dxvdoc\*O) and
edited with the DECwindows bitmap editor (\*L/usr/bin/X11/dxpaint\*O).
.LE
.PP
The following three switches modify the output file when used according to
the usage diagrams above.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-a\*O"
Creates a (Sixel only) output file with a horizontal doubling of the
printable output.  This is useful to eliminate a \*(lqsqueezed\*(rq
appearance of the screen image when printed on printers that have a greater
horizontal resolution than vertical resolution, such as the Digital LA50.
.LI "\*L\-r\*O"
Creates an output file with a reversal of light and dark.
This option is useful to save printer ink or toner when printing
screen images that are mostly dark.
.LI "\*L\-f\*O"
Creates an output file that is either printed at a 90 degree angle, or
uniformly reduced in size, or both, so that it will fit entirely within an
A-size printed page.  This option is implied when PostScript is chosen by
default (by omitting the \*L\-s\*O, \*L\-p\*O, and \*L\-D\*O flags).
.nP
.LI "\*L\-T \*Vinteger\*O"
For Sixel captures, specifies the Sixel output device.
\*VInteger\*O represents a printer from the following table:
.TS
tab(@);
l lw(2.5i) nw(0.5i).
.sp 4p
 @VT terminal or DECterm@2
@LA50@12
@LA75@13
@LA100@14
@Laser printer (LN03, LPS20, etc.)@15
@LCG01@19
@LJ250 (256 color mode)@20
@LA210@21
@LJ250 (8 color mode)@24
.TE
The default for black and white (\*L\-b\*O) and greyscale (\*L\-G\*O) screen
captures is the LN03. The default for color captures (\*L\-c\*O) is the LJ250.
.LE
.SS Flags Specifying Output Color
.if n .PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-b\*O"
Default.
Creates a black and white capture file.  This rendering is
supported by all workstations and printers.  It will create a high
contrast printed output \- screen areas darker than 50% gray will appear
black, and lighter screen areas will appear white.
.LI "\*L\-G\*O"
Creates a gray-scale capture file.  This rendering is supported by
all printers, but only by color or gray-scale workstations.  A color
screen image will be represented in the file by suitable shades of gray,
but there may be adjacent regions of different colors that coincidentally
have the same gray value when printed and thus will \*(lqblend into\*(rq
each other.
.LI "\*L\-c\*O"
Creates a color capture file.  This color rendering is supported by all
printers but only
on color workstations (with any number of color planes).  Printing it on
a black and white printer will give varying results depending on the
printer. Sixel output is optimized for a Digital LJ250 color printer.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
This example captures a reversed-contrast full-screen PostScript capture in the
file \*Lmysnapshot.ps\*O (in the current working directory) after a one second
delay.
.IP
.iS
\*Ldxprint \-p \-r \-t mysnapshot.ps\*O
.iE
.LI
This example captures
a black and white PostScript image of the area bounded by
(100,100) and (300,150) to standard output.
.IP
.iS
\*Ldxprint \-x100 \-y100 \-w200 \-h50\*O
.iE
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lcdoc\*O(1),
\*Llpr\*O(1),
\*Ldxvdoc\*O(1X),
\*Ldxpaint\*O(1X),
\*LCDA\*O(4),
\*LDDIF\*O(4),
\*Llpd\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
