.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dxsession.1X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/15 21:46:09 $
.\"
.TH dxsession 1X
.SH NAME
\*Ldxsession\*O, \*Ldxpause\*O, \*LXconsole\*O \- DECwindows session manager and error log window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Ldxsession\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "dxsession"
.iX "dxpause"
.iX "Xconsole"
.iX "session manager"
.iX "DECwindows session manager"
.iX "DECwindows Interface" "session manager"
.PP
The \*Ldxsession\*O program provides a graphical interface to
DECwindows session management functionality.  You can use \*Ldxsession\*O
to invoke applications and to customize the workstation environment.
.PP
A DECwindows session begins when you log into the workstation through the
\*Lxdm\*O login prompt.  The \*Ldxsession\*O program is automatically
executed by \*Lxdm\*O as the default DECwindows session manager.  When
started, \*Ldxsession\*O first reads the \*L.Xdefaults\*O file in your
home directory and incorporates those resource values into the X Server.
Next, \*Ldxsession\*O starts a window manager, the default being \*Lmwm\*O.
You may specify another window manager in your \*L.Xdefaults\*O
file or with the session manager Customize Window dialog.
.PP
After the session manager window appears \*Ldxsession\*O
runs the applications and shell scripts
specified in the AutoStart list.  If you have a \*L.X11Startup\*O
file in your home directory, it will
be appended to the AutoStart list automatically.  This script is
rarely necessary, unless you require complex startup actions or the
setting of environment variables.
.PP
Use the Customize menu to tailor \*Ldxsession\*O.  Whenever you save
the attributes you have specified by means of the Customize dialogs,
\*Ldxsession\*O writes resource specifications into your \*L.Xdefaults\*O
file.  Note that the \*L.Xdefaults\*O file is only read by \*Ldxsession\*O
once, when it starts.
.SS xdm Login Prompt
The \*Lxdm\*O login prompt gives you initial access to the
workstation by prompting you for a name and password.  For more
information see \*Lxdm\*O(1X).
.SS Session Manager Window
The session manager window consists of the following areas:
.VL 4m
.LI "Title Bar"
Displays window manager icons that let you move and resize the session
manager window, and shrink the window to an icon.  For more information, see
\*Lmwm\*O(1X).
.LI "Menu Bar"
Lists the available \*Ldxsession\*O menus (such as Applications and Customize).
.LE
.SS X Console
The X console is started in icon form by the session manager at
login. The X console records all messages sent to \*L/dev/console\*O
as well as any output from the session manager, and then can be
used as an enter by window.
.PP
When the X console window has been restored from an icon,
you can click on the Dismiss button to shrink the window to an icon or
click on the Clear button to delete existing text from the window and
shrink the window to an icon.
.SS DXpause
The \*Ldxpause\*O program starts when the user selects \*LPause\*O
from the Session menu on the Session Manager Menu Bar.  The program
places a blank screen over the workstation screen and displays the
Continue Session dialog box.  This box prompts for the password of
the person whose session was paused.  When you enter the correct
password, the blank screen is removed and the session resumes.
.SH MENUS
.PP
The session manager window contains the following menus:
.PP
.oS
Session
Applications
Customize
Help
.oE
.SS Session Menu
The Session menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Pause"
Places a blank screen over the workstation screen and displays the
Continue Session dialog box, which prompts for the password of
the person whose session was paused.
When you enter the correct password, \*Ldxsession\*O removes the blank
screen and resumes the session.
.LI "Quit"
Ends the current session and exits from all applications.
.LE
.SS Applications Menu
The Applications menu contains a list of applications that you can
start.  By default it includes all of the standard DECwindows
applications (Mail, Calendar, DECterm, and so forth).
Choose one of the applications to start it up. You can add applications as items
on the menu or remove those currently listed by choosing the
Applications Menu item from the Customize menu.
.SS Customize
The Customize menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Application Definitions..."
Displays a dialog box that lets you provide or change application
definitions.  An application definition consists of the name to use
in Session Manager menus and the associated command that
is executed when \*Ldxsession\*O starts the application.  Applications
must be defined before you can add them to the Applications menu or
Autostartup list.
.LI "Applications Menu..."
Displays a dialog box that lets you specify the applications that
appear on the Applications menu.  You must define an application
by means of the Customize Applications Definitions menu before
you add it to the Applications menu.
you add it to to the Applications menu.
.LI "AutoStartup..."
Displays a dialog box that lets you specify the applications
that \*Ldxsession\*O automatically starts each time a session starts.
You must define an application
by means of the Customize Applications Definitions menu before
you add it to the Applications menu.
.LI "Keyboard..."
Displays a dialog box that lets you specify characteristics of your
keyboard (such as bell and keyclick volume).
.LI "Language..."
Displays a dialog box that lets you specify the language in which
you prefer to work.
.LI "Pointer..."
Displays a dialog box that lets you specify characteristics of your
pointer (such as its shape and color).
.LI "Security..."
Displays a dialog box that lets you specify the hosts that can
display applications on this workstation.
.LI "Session Manager..."
Displays a dialog box that lets you customize attributes of \*Ldxsession\*O.
These include its start-up state (as an icon or opened window),
the text that appears when your workstation is paused, and the message
region's size and header.
.LI "Window..."
Displays a dialog box that lets you specify screen and window
characteristics.  These include colors, size of your icons, and
on some systems, the screen background pattern.  In addition, if you
want to use a window manager other than the default DECwindows
one, you can specify it here.
.LI "Use Last Saved Settings"
Restores the settings you last saved.
.LI "Use System Defaults"
Restores the system default settings.
.LI "Save Current Settings"
Saves the current settings.
.LI "Help"
Overview gives an overview of Session Manager's menus and features.
About provides information about the software version.
.LE
.SH X DEFAULTS
.PP
The \*Ldxsession\*O application uses the values present in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O
file in your home directory, when you first log in to customize the
appearance and characteristics of its windows and dialogs.  The format
for a resource specification in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O file is:
.PP
.sS
[\*Vname\*L*]\*Vresource\*L:  \*Vvalue\*O
.sE
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Specifies the application name or the name string that restricts the
resource assignment to that application or to a component of an application.
If this argument is not specified, the resource assignment is globally
available to all X applications.
.LI "\*Vresource\*O"
Specifies the resource.
.LI "\*Vvalue\*O"
Specifies the value that is to be assigned to the resource.
.LE
.PP
For more information, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.PP
Because each toolkit-based application can consist of a combination of
widgets (for example, push buttons and a scroll bar), you can form the
name string by adding widget class and name identifiers to the string.
For further information about adding class and name identifiers,
see \*LX\*O(1X).
.PP
Note that the first name for lines that apply only to the session
manager should be labeled "DXsession".  The first name for lines that
apply only to the X console should be labeled "xconsole".
.PP
For \*Ldxsession\*O, the available classes are:
.PP
.oS
AttachedDialogBox
Dialog
Label
MainWindow
Menu
Menubar
Message
Pulldown
Pushbutton
Text
Toggle
.oE
.PP
For \*Ldxsession\*O, the available names are:
.PP
.oS
ConfirmFilename
ConfirmPrint
CreatePulldown
CustomizeAutoStart
CustomizeAppDef
CustomizeAppMenu
CustomizeKeyboard
CustomizePrinter
CustomizePulldown
CustomizeSecurity
CustomizeSession
CustomizeWindow
MainWindow
Menubar
Messages
SessionPulldown
SETLANGUAGE_BOX
WorkAreaDialog
.oE
.PP
In addition to the general resources listed in \*LX\*O(1X), and those
that the Customize dialog boxes specify, \*Ldxsession\*O uses the
following resources:
.VL 4m
.LI "terminalEmulatorName"
Specifies the name of the terminal emulator to run at \*Ldxsession\*O startup.
The default is \*Lxterm\*O.
.LI "pointer_shape"
Specifies the design of the pointer character.   DECwindows pointers
are specified by negative numbers; choose the pointer
by using the Customize Pointer dialog
box.  MIT pointers can be specified by positive
numbers that correspond to values in
\*L/usr/include/X11/cursorfont.h\*O.
.LI "AutoStart"
A list of applications, delimited by commas,  to be
considered for starting up by \*Ldxsession\*O at startup time.
.LI "num_AutoStart"
An integer indicating how many of the applications
specified in the \*LAutoStart\*O resource to
actually be started.  If the  \*LAutoStart\*O resource
contains 5 applications and the value of num_AutoStart
is 3, only the first three of the \*LAutoStart\*O
applications are started.
.LI "Xsession.bell_enable"
Specifies whether the keyboard bell is enabled or not.  The default value
is \*Lenabled\*O.
.LI "bell_percent"
Specifies the integer value of the volume of the bell.  The default value is 50.
.LI "keyclick_enable"
Specifies whether the keyclick resource is enabled or not.   The default
value is \*Lenabled\*O.
.LI "keyclick_percent"
Specifies the integer value of the volume of the keyclick.  The default
value is 50.
.LI "autorepeat_mode"
Specifies whether the autorepeat mode is enabled
or not.   The default value is \*Lenabled\*O.
.LI "lock_state"
Specifies the mode of the keyboard when the value of the resource is in use.
The default value is \*Lcaps\*O.
.LI "screen_saver_enable"
Specifies whether the screen_saver resource is enabled or not.   The
default value is \*Lenabled\*O.
.LI "screen_saver_period"
Specifies the integer value of the number of minutes
during which, if there is no keyboard or mouse activity,
the system enables the screen_saver.  The default value is 10 (minutes).
.LI "display_foreground"
Specifies the color of the foreground of the display.
The default value is \*Lblack\*O.
.LI "display_background"
Specifies the color of the background of the display.
The default value is \*Lwhite\*O.
.LI "display_pattern"
Specifies the pattern of the display.  The default value is 0.
.LI "pointer_foreground"
Specifies the color of the foreground of the pointer.
The default value is \*Lwhite\*O.
.LI "pointer_background"
Specifies the color of the background of the display.
The default value is \*Lwhite\*O.
.LI "startup_state"
Specifies the state of the session manager when it is
started up.  The default value is \*Lmapped\*O.  The alternate
value is \*Liconified\*O.
.LI "confirm_endsession"
Specifies whether the session manager is to query for confirmation if the
user chooses to \*LQuit\*O.  The default value is 1 (true).
.LI "host_list"
Specifies a list of hosts, delimited by commas.  The list
is used by the \*LSecurity\*O feature of the session manager.
The default value is an empty list.
.LI "num_hosts"
Specifies an integer representing the number of hosts mentioned
in the \*Lhost_list\*O resource to be considered.  The default value is 0.
.LI "AppMenu"
Specifies a list of applications, delimited by commas, to be used by
the \*LApplications\*O button of the \*LCustomize\*O feature of the
session manager.  The default value is an empty list.
.LI "num_AppMenu"
Specifies an integer representing the number of applications mentioned
in the \*LAppMenu\*O resource to be used.  The default value is 0.
.LI "AutoStart"
Specifies a list of applications, delimited by commas, to be started up
by the session manager at startup time.  The default value is an empty list.
.LI "num_AutoStart"
Specifies an integer representing the number of Applications mentioned
in the \*LAutoStart\*O resource to be used.  The default value is 0.
.LI "x"
Specifies an integer representing the X coordinate of the session manager
window at startup time.  The default value is 0.
.LI "y"
Specifies an integer representing the Y coordinate of the session manager
window at startup time.  The default value is 0.
.LI "PauseLabel.labelString"
Specifies a string to be displayed in the \*LPause\*O feature
of the session manager.  The default value is
\*L"Enter your password to resume"\*O.
.LI "windowManagerName"
Specifies a string representing the name of the window manager to be started
up by the session manager.  The default value is \*LSystem Default\*O.
.LI "applications"
Specifies a list of applications, delimited by commas, to be
used by the \*LApplications\*O feature of the session manager.
.LI "a,b,c,d"
Indicates values to be replaced by the user.
.LI "num_applications"
Specifies an integer representing the number of Applications mentioned
in the \*Lapplications\*O resource to be used.  The default value is 2.
.LI "startupfilename"
Specifies a file to be executed at startup time by the
session manager.  This feature will become obsolete in the
next release, and it is suggested that the resource value for this
resource be appended to the list of AutoStart resource value.
The current release append the value (if any) to the AutoStart
list, and comments out the line containing this resource name.
.LI "RootPasswd"
Specifies whether the session manager is to consider the
root password also while checking whether a typed string
matches the user's password.  It becomes useful when the
session is to be resumed from a paused state.  The default value is \*Lfalse\*O.
.LE
.SS X Console Resources
.VL 4m
.LI "rows"
Specifies the height of the sconsole window.  The default value is 10.
.LI "columns"
Specifies the width of the xconsole window.  The default value is 40.
.LE
.SS DXpause Resources
.VL 4m
.LI "DXpause"
The first name for lines that apply only to the Pause task should be
labeled \*LDXpause\*O.
.LI "grabServer"
When this resource is True, \*Ldxpause\*O executes an \*LXGrabServer\*O
library call, thereby inhibiting all processing of
requests or close downs on any other connection.  Although this
action absolutely insures that no information is displayed "through"
the pause screen, it also effectively suspends other tasks that
need to output information to their windows.  When this resource is
False, the protective pause screen is raised to the top of the
display stack 20 times per second, thus re-covering any other
window that might have been displayed.  Tasks that need to output
to their own windows will not be suspended.  The default is False.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L~/.login\*O"
.LI "\*L~/.cshrc\*O"
.LI "\*L~/.X11Startup\*O"
.LI "\*L~/.Xdefaults\*O"
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/DXsession\*O"
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/X11/uid/DXsession\*O"
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/X11/getcons\*O"
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lmwm\*O(1X),
\*LX\*O(1X),
\*Lxdm\*O(1X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
