.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dxterm.1X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 23:26:09 $
.\"
.TH dxterm 1X
.SH NAME
\*Ldxterm\*O \- DECwindows terminal emulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "dxterm"
.iX "Terminal emulator" "DECwindows (dxterm)"
.iX "DECwindows terminal emulator"
.iX "DECwindows Interface" "terminal emulator"
\*Ldxterm\*O [ \*Vflags\*O ]
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-customization \*Vstring\*O"
Specifies a value for a \*Ldxterm\*O resource that overrides a default
setting.  The \*Vstring\*O has the form resource:value.  You can specify
this flag multiple times to change multiple resources.
See the X DEFAULTS section in this reference page for a list of resources
that can be changed.  You can specify both \*Ldxterm\*O and shell
resources as \*V*resource\*O.
.LI "\*L\-d \*Vdispname\*O"
Specifies the display screen on which \*Ldxterm\*O displays its window.  If the
display flag is not specified, \*Ldxterm\*O uses the display screen specified
by your DISPLAY environment variable.  The display flag has the format
\*Vhostname\*L:\*Vnumber\*O.  The default is :0.  For more information, see
\*LX\*O(1X).
.LI "\*L\-display \*Vdispname\*O"
Is the same as the \*L\-d\*O flag.
.LI "\*L\-e \*Vcommand\*O [ \*Voptions\*O ]"
Specifies that the named command, and any of its specified options,
be executed in the \*Ldxterm\*O window when the window is first created.
This flag must appear last on the \*Ldxterm\*O command line.
.LI "\*L\-geometry\*O"
Specifies the width, length, and location of the \*Ldxterm \*O
window, in columns, rows and pixels respectively.
This flag has the format [\*Vwidth\*O][x\*Vlength\*O][+\*Vx\*O][+\*Vy\*O].
.LI "\*L\-ls\*O"
Specifies that \*Ldxterm\*O create a login shell rather than a subshell.
.LI "\*L\-setup \*Vfile\*O"
Specifies the setup file or files that provide parameters that control the
terminal's initial settings.  This must be a file saved by the
Customize/Save function in \*Ldxterm.\*O The default is
\*L~/DXterm\*O. Specify \*L\-setup ""\*O to prevent
\*LDXterm\*O from being read.
.LI "\*L\-size \*VC\*Lx\*VR\*O"
Specifies the size of the dxterm window in columns (C) and rows (R).
.LI "\*L\-xrm \*Vstring\*O"
Is the same as the  \*L-customization\*O flag.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Ldxterm\*O command displays a window that
provides Digital VT320 terminal emulation and a standard terminal type
for programs not aware of the X Window System directly.  The terminal
emulator also supports the ReGIS and sixel graphics protocols.
.SH MENUS
.PP
The menu bar contains the following items:
.PP
.oS
File
Edit
Commands
Options
Print
Help
.oE
.SS File Menu
The File menu contains the following item:
.VL 4m
.LI "Exit"
Shuts down the terminal emulator application (removes all its windows,
stops the process running the emulator, and ends any applications).
.LE
.SS Edit Menu
The Edit menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Copy"
Copies the text selected from the \*Ldxterm \*O window onto the clipboard.
.LI "Paste"
Pastes text selected from the clipboard into the \*Ldxterm\*O
window, as if it had been typed.
.LI "Select All"
Selects all displayed text.
.LE
.SS Commands Menu
The Commands menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Secure Keyboard"
Prevents processes other than the owner process from accessing the keyboard.
.LI "Clear Lines Off Top"
Erases data recorded by \*Ldxterm\*O from the top of the scrolling area.
.LI "Clear Display"
Clears the display and positions the cursor at the first column and
first line of the display.
.LI "Resize Window"
Changes the size of the window to match the display so that all characters
in the display are visible.
.LI "Clear Communications"
Clears the communication buffers.
.LI "Reset Terminal"
Resets the emulator to the original settings.  For example, sets the
keyboard action mode to unlocked and the keypad mode to numeric.
.LE
.SS Options Menu
The \*Ldxterm \*O setup features are grouped into a number of related
categories.  The Options menu lets you access the dialog box for each
of these categories (these correspond to VT320 Set-Up screens).
.PP
The Options menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Window..."
Displays the Window Options dialog box, which contains controls that
affect the window features.
.LI "Display... "
Displays the Display Options dialog box, which contains controls that
affect the format of the user's current window.
.LI "General..."
Displays the General Options dialog box, which contains controls for
commonly changed Customize features.
.LI "Keyboard..."
Displays the Keyboard Options dialog box, which contains controls for
keyboard operating features.
.LI "7-Bit NRCS Selection..."
Allows you to specify a 7-bit National Replacement Character Set (NRCS).
.LI "Graphics..."
Displays the Graphics Options dialog box that contains
controls for ReGIS and sixel graphics.
.LI "Printer..."
Displays the Printer Options dialog box, which contains controls that
affect printer features.
.LI "Save Options"
Saves the current settings to the file \*L~/DXterm\*O.
.LI "Restore Options"
Restores the setup configuration from the most recently read or written saved
setup file (corresponds to NVR [nonvolatile RAM] recall on a VT320 terminal).
.LI "Save Named Options..."
Saves the current settings in the file you specify.
.LI "Restore Named Options..."
Opens a different saved setup configuration. The standard DECwindows
file selection dialog box appears, showing a list of saved setup files
in the current directory.  Selecting one of these files and clicking on
OK (or double-clicking on the file) reinitializes the terminal emulator
with the configuration stored in that file.
.LI "Restore System Options"
Reinitializes the terminal emulator with the system default
characteristics defined by your system.
.LE
.SS Print Menu
The Print menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Print Text Page"
Prints the text in the current window.
.LI "Print Selected Text"
Prints the selected information.
.LI "Print All Text"
Prints the information in the display and transcript as text.
.LI "Print Graphics"
Prints the contents of the display in sixel format.
.LI "Finish Printing"
The Finish Printing option completes a print job depending on the print
destination. If queued to a printer, the job is submitted. If submitted to a
dedicated printer port, the job is canceled. If written to a file, the
file is closed. This option is used with Auto Print mode or Printer
Controller mode.
.LI "Cancel Printing"
The Cancel Printing option stops the print request.
.LE
.SS Help Menu
The Help menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "On Context"
Context-sensitive help is information about an object in a window or a
dialog box.  To display context-sensitive help, choose On Context
from the Help menu.  The pointer changes to a question mark. Move the
question mark to a menu, a button, or another object and click MB1.  Help
for that object appears.
.LI "On Window"
Displays an overview of DECterm along with help on how to perform various
functions using DECterm.
.LI "On Help"
Displays information about how to use the help system.
.LI "On Version"
Displays copyright and version information about DECterm.
.LE
.SS Options Dialog Boxes
The Options dialog boxes represent the state of the terminal.  At
application startup, the previously saved state of most terminal
features is read from a saved set-up file (which corresponds to VT320
NVR).  These feature settings remain constant until you explicitly
change them.  You can change terminal operating features directly by
means of the Options dialog boxes.  You can also change some of these
features indirectly by means of control functions from the host.
.PP
There are a few terminal features whose state is not stored in a
saved setup file.  These features are restored to their factory
default values at application startup, or when you reset the terminal
(with Reset Terminal or DECSTR).
.SS Window Options Dialog Box
The Window Options dialog box lets you change the following window attributes:
.VL 4m
.LI "Auto Resize Terminal"
Changes the terminal size to match the window size automatically
whenever the window size changes.
.LI "Auto Resize Window"
Changes the window size to match the terminal size automatically
whenever the terminal size changes.
.LI "Terminal Driver Resize"
Changes the terminal size to match the size known to the terminal driver
whenever the size changes in the terminal driver, and vice versa.
.LI "Big Font"
Displays an 18-point font.
.LI "Little Font"
Displays a 14-point font.
.LI "German Standard Font"
Displays a font that meets the German Technical Supervision Association (T\V)
requirements.
.LI "Normal Font (80 Columns)"
Sets a font to a column width of 80 characters.
.LI "Condensed Font (132 Columns)"
Sets a font to a column width of 132 characters.
.LI "Normal/80, Condensed/132"
Adjusts the font to match the width of the terminal automatically.
.LI "Window Title"
Changes the title displayed in the title bar.
.LI "Icon Name"
Changes the title displayed in the icon box.
.LI "Terminal Size"
Sets the number of rows and columns that are displayed.
You can select 24, 48, or 72 rows and 80 or 132 columns, or
enter a custom size in the numeric entry fields.
.LE
.SS Display Options Dialog Box
The Display Options dialog box lets you change the following display attributes:
.VL 4m
.LI "Record Lines Off Top"
Saves lines that are scrolled off the top of the display.  When you choose
Record Lines Off Top, a filled-in button appears to the left of the menu
selection.
.LI "Vertical Scroll Bar"
Displays a vertical scroll bar along the right side of the \*Ldxterm\*O window.
.LI "Horizontal Scroll Bar"
Displays a horizontal scroll bar along the bottom of the \*Ldxterm\*O window.
.LI "Vertical Cursor Coupling"
Specifies that the window scrolls vertically so that the cursor is visible.
.LI "Horizontal Cursor Coupling"
Specifies that the window scrolls horizontally so that the cursor is visible.
.LI "Auto Wrap"
Specifies that when the cursor reaches the right margin, new characters
are displayed on the next line.  If you do not automatically wrap text,
when the cursor reaches the right margin each new character deletes the
previous character.
.LI "Display Cursor"
Specifies whether the cursor is displayed.  The default is to display
the cursor.
.LI "Cursor Blink"
Specifies whether the cursor blinks.  The default is to have the cursor blink.
.LI "Batch Scroll nnn Lines"
Specifies how many lines scroll at the same time.  Increasing
the Batch Scroll count improves performance but makes it harder
to read text while it is scrolling.
.LI "Record nnn Lines Off Top"
Specifies how many lines to save when they scroll off the top
of the display (when the Record Lines Off Top item is enabled).
.LI "Dark Text, Light Background"
Sets dark text on a light background display.
.LI "Light Text, Dark Background"
Sets light text on a dark background display.
.LI "No Status Display"
Suppresses the status line at the bottom of the window.
.LI "Host Status Display"
Specifies that a host-writable status line appears at the bottom of the window.
.LI "Block Cursor"
Specifies that the text cursor is a block that covers the character cell.
.LI "Underline Cursor"
Specifies that the text cursor is an underline at the bottom of the
character cell.
.LE
.SS General Options Dialog Box
The General Options dialog box lets you change the following general attributes:
.VL 4m
.LI "Newline"
Turns on new line mode (NLM), which causes the Return key to send a line
feed as well as a carriage return.  A line feed character moves the cursor
to the start of the line as well as advancing it to the next line.
.LI "Lock UDKs"
Locks the user-defined keys so that the host system cannot change
these definitions.
.LI "Lock User Features"
Stops the host from changing your customized settings for the Auto
Repeat key and the Foreground and Background display.
.LI "Normal Cursor Keys"
Specifies that the arrow keys are set to the characters labeled on
the keycaps.  The keys are not mapped to any other functions.
.LI "Appl Cursor Keys"
Specifies that the arrow keys are mapped to application-specific functions.
.LI "Numeric Keypad"
Specifies that the numeric keypad is set to the characters labeled on
the keycaps.
.LI "Application Keypad"
Specifies that the application keypad is set to function as user-defined keys.
.LI "UPSS DEC Supplemental"
Specifies that \*Ldxterm\*O use the Digital Multinational Character Set.  To use
this character set, set the Character Set mode menu item to 8-bit Characters.
The default is the Digital Multinational Character Set.
.LI "UPSS ISO Latin-1"
Specifies that \*Ldxterm\*O use the International Standards Organization (ISO) Character Set.
To use this character set, set the Character Set mode menu item
to 8-bit Characters.
.LI "8-bit Multinational Characters"
Specifies the character set mode to be 8 bits for use with the Digital
Supplemental or ISO Latin-1 Character Set.  The default is 8-bit character mode.
.LI "7-bit NRCS Characters"
Specifies the character set mode to be 7 bits for use with the
National Replacement Character Sets.  The default is 8-bit character mode.
.LI "VT300 Mode, 8-bit Controls"
Specifies that the terminal operates in VT300 mode and transmits
8-bit control characters.
.LI "VT300 Mode, 7-bit Controls"
Specifies that the terminal operates in VT300 mode and transmits
7-bit control characters.
.LI "VT100 Mode"
Specifies that the terminal operates in VT100 mode, using
7-bit characters for both input and output.
.LI "VT52 Mode"
Specifies that the terminal operates in VT52 mode, using
7-bit characters for both input and output.
.LI "Terminal ID"
Specifies the device attributes response (Terminal ID).
The device attributes response lets the host system know
specific operating attributes of the terminal.
The Terminal ID can be one of the following:
.IP
.oS
VT100
VT101
VT102
VT125
VT220
VT240
VT320
VT330
VT340
DECterm ID
.oE
.IP
The default is DECterm ID.
.LE
.SS Keyboard Options Dialog Box
The Keyboard Options dialog box lets you change the following keyboard
attributes:
.VL 4m
.LI "Warning bell"
Specifies whether the warning bell sounds when \*Ldxterm\*O receives a
BEL character (ASCII 7).  The default is that the bell sounds.
.LI "Margin Bell"
Specifies whether the warning bell sounds when the cursor reaches
the right margin. The default is that the bell does not sound.
.LI "Auto Repeat"
Specifies whether a character repeats or does not repeat when you hold
the key down.  If you set the Lock User Feature menu item, the host
system cannot change this setting.
.LI "Ctrl\-Q, Ctrl\-S = Hold"
Specifies that the Ctrl\-S and Ctrl\-Q keys freeze and unfreeze the
display.  If this is not specified, the Ctrl\-S and Ctrl\-Q keys are
transmitted to the host as data characters.
.LI "Allow Quickcopy"
Specifies whether you can make copies quickly by using the mouse
button rather than cutting and pasting into this window.
To perform a Quickcopy, select an object with MB2 and then release
MB2 to insert the object at the current cursor position.
.LI "Tilde Key Sends `~"
Specifies that a  left single quotation mark (`) is displayed when you
press the `~ key and that a tilde (~) is displayed when you press
the Shift key and `~ key on a keyboard using the North American or
Dutch keyboard dialect.   This is the default.
.LI "Tilde Key Sends ESC"
Specifies that the `~ key functions as an escape character (ESC)
on a keyboard using the North American or Dutch keyboard dialect.
The default is to display the characters as labeled on the keyboard.
.LI "F11 Key Sends F11"
Specifies that the F11 key will send the F11 keycode to the host.
.LI "F11 Sends Escape"
Specifies that the F11 key will send an escape to the host.
.LI "Angle Brackets Key Sends (<>)"
Specifies that a left angle bracket (<) is displayed when you press
the angle bracket key, and that a right angle bracket (>) is displayed
when you press the Shift key and angle bracket key. This is the default.
.LI "Angle Brackets Key Sends `~"
Specifies that a left single quotation mark (`) is displayed when
you press the angle brackets key and that a tilde (~) is displayed
when you press the Shift key and angle brackets key.
The default is to display the characters as labeled on the keyboard.
.LI "<X] Delete"
Specifies that the back arrow key sends a delete
(ASCII 127) character.  Depending on your terminal settings,
this usually deletes the previous character.  The default
back arrow operation sends a delete character.
.LI "<X] Backspace"
Specifies that the back arrow key sends a backspace (ASCII 8, Ctrl/H).  The
effect of this character depends on your terminal settings.  The
default back arrow operation sends a delete character.
.LI "Comma Key Sends ,,"
Specifies that a comma is displayed when you press the Shift key and
comma key on a keyboard using the North American or Dutch keyboard
dialect.  This is the default.
.LI "Comma Key Sends ,<"
Specifies that a comma is displayed when you press the Shift key and
comma key, and that a left angle bracket (<) is displayed when you press
just the comma key on a keyboard using the North American or Dutch
keyboard dialect.  The default is to display a comma.
.LE
.SS 7-bit NRCS Selection Dialog Box
The 7-bit NRCS Selection dialog box lets you select a National
Replacement Character Set (NRCS) for use when the terminal is
in 7-bit mode.  This selection affects output to the terminal,
but not keyboard input. To select the keyboard dialect, which does
affect input, use the Keyboard dialog box from the Session
Manager's Customize menu.  For example, to use the
Spanish NRCS, select the keyboard in the Session Manager and also
select the Spanish NRCS in DECterm.
.PP
To select a character set, click MB1 on the desired entry.
The choices are:
.PP
.oS
North American
Flemish
Canadian (French)
British
Danish
Finnish
Austrian/German
Dutch
Italian
Swiss (French)
Swiss (German)
Swedish
Norwegian
Belgian/French
Spanish
Portugese
.oE
.PP
The default character set is North American.  The Dutch NRCS is no longer
supported; selecting Dutch is equivalent to selecting North American.
.SS Graphics Dialog Box
The Graphics Options dialog box lets you change the following graphics
attributes:
.VL 4m
.LI "Share Color Map Entries"
Controls whether \*Ldxterm\*O uses shared, read-only colors
for graphics.  The default is Off, but the option is forced to On if
the hardware color map is read-only.
.LI "Enable Backing Store"
Specifies whether \*Ldxterm\*O creates a pixmap to allow graphics
to be redrawn when the window is exposed. The default is On.
.LI "Report Macrograph Contents"
Enables the ReGIS macrograph report command.  The default is Off.
.LI "NN Bit Planes"
Controls the number of bit planes used for graphics.  VT240 emulation
requires 2 planes; VT340 emulation requires 4 planes.  On systems with
fewer than 8 hardware planes, the default is 2 planes; on systems with 8
or more hardware planes, the default is 4 planes.
.LE
.SS Print Options Dialog Box
The Printer Options dialog box lets you change the following printer
attributes:
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "Queued Printer"
Specifies that a queued printer selected in the Options... dialog
box should be used as the printing destination.
.LI "Printer Port"
By default, the Printer Port option specifies the local printer port.
To choose another port, enter the device name in the text entry box.
.LI "File"
By default, information printed on the screen does not create a file.
Choosing the File option saves the printed output to a file.
.LI "None"
By default, the None option discards the queued job.
.LI "Normal Print Mode"
To print characters use the Print Screen key or use escape sequences.
.LI "Auto Print Mode"
By default, a line of information is printed if the cursor leaves that
line because of an LF, VT, FF, or autowrap.
.LI "Printer Controller Mode"
By default, each character is printed as it is
received. If not selected, the character is displayed.
.LI "Print Full Page"
By default, the information on the display is printed not including
information stored in the transcript or status line.
.LI "Print Full Page + Transcript"
By default, the information in the transcript followed
by the information on the display is printed.
.LI "Print Scroll Region Only"
By default, the information stored in the scrolling
region of the display is printed.
.LI "Print Selection Only"
By default, the information in the selected region of
the display and transcript is printed.
.LI "Print National Characters Only"
By default, only national characters are printed. Other
characters are either converted to the corresponding
national characters or the characters are not printed.
.LI "Print National + Line Drawing"
By default, national characters and line drawing characters are printed.
.LI "Print All Characters"
By default, all characters are printed, including multinational and
technical characters.
.LI "Form Feed Terminator"
By default, a FF is added at the end of each page.
Alternately, an escape sequence can be used.
.LI "Printer To Host"
By default, any character read on the printer port is sent back to the
host application. This option is available only when the print destination
is a printer port device rather than a print queue or a file.
.LI "Graphics Printing"
By default, graphics (bitmap) and text are printed.
.LI "Background Printing"
By default, the graphics background color is printed.  Omitting background
color saves ink and toner and maximizes printing speed.
.LI "Level 1 Sixel Graphics"
By default, a sixel introducer that omits the macro
parameter is selected. This option does not use the
Sixel Set Attributes command to set the aspect ratio
and the horizontal grid size. As a result, the sixel
aspect ratio is 2 to 1 and the horizontal grid size is
approximately 188 x 0.025 mm (7.5 x 0.001 inches).
.LI "Level 2 Sixel Graphics"
By default, a sixel aspect ratio of 1 to 1 with a
variable grid size is printed using the Sixel Set
Attributes command (available with Level 2 printers).
.LI "LA210 Sixel Graphics"
By default, a sixel introducer with the 9-macro parameter is selected.
This results in a sixel aspect ratio of 1.02 to 1.
.LI "Compressed Graphics Printing"
By default, a compressed graphics image is printed. In
Portrait mode, the output fits on an 8 x 5 inch page.
.LI "Expanded Graphics Printing"
By default, an expanded image is printed. In Portrait
mode, the image fits on a 13-inch page.
.LI "Rotated Graphics Printing"
By default, an expanded image, rotated 90-degrees, is
printed. The output fits on a 8 x 5 inch page.
.LI "Monochrome Printing"
By default, the Monochrome Printing option prints in black.
.LI "Color Printing"
By default, the Color Printing option prints color output. DECterm includes
a color map in virtual memory to allow color printing from a monochrome system.
.LI "HLS Color Syntax"
By default, the HLS Color Syntax option specifies hue,
lightness, and saturation (HLS).
.LI "RGB Color Syntax"
By default, the RGB Color Syntax option selects a red,
green, and blue (RGB) format when printed.
.LE
.SH X DEFAULTS
.PP
The \*Ldxterm\*O application uses the values in the \*L.Xdefaults\*O
file when you logged in and uses the appropriate resource specification
to customize the appearance or characteristics of its displayed \*Ldxterm\*O
window.  The format for a resource specification in the .Xdefaults file is:
.PP
.sS
[\*Vname\*L.\*O]\*Vresource\*L:  \*Vvalue\*O
.sE
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vname\*O"
Specifies the application name or the name string that restricts the
resource assignment to that application or to a component of an application.
If this argument is not specified, the resource assignment is globally
available to all X applications.
.LI "\*Vresource\*O"
Specifies the X resource.
.LI "\*Vvalue\*O"
Specifies the value that is to be assigned to the resource.
.LE
.PP
In most cases, the period (.) delimiter should be replaced by an asterisk (*).
For more information, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.PP
Because each toolkit-based application can consist of a combination of
widgets (for example, push buttons and a scroll bar), you can form the
name string by adding widget class and name identifiers to the string.
.PP
For \*Ldxterm\*O, the application class is DXterm and the application name is
the name that was specified on the command line (usually \*Ldxterm\*O).
.PP
For \*Ldxterm\*O, the available name identifier is \*Lterminal\*O.
This name identifier specifies the work area of the \*Ldxterm\*O window.
.PP
In addition to the general resources listed in \*LX\*O(1X), the resources
available for the \*Ldxterm\*O work area are:
.VL 4m
.LI "adjustFontSizes"
Specifies that \*Ldxterm\*O selects the normal or condensed font based
on the number of columns selected.  The default is On.
.LI "allowShellResize"
If On, the program can change the size of the \*Ldxterm\*O window.
If Off, you can specify a fixed size with the geometry specification.
However, DECterm always turns on this resource even if you have turned
it off, because DECterm resizes its window according to the font, the
number of rows, and the number of columns.
.LI "angleBracketsKey"
Specifies the mapping of the angle brackets (<>) key.  Zero maps the
key to AngleBrackets (0); 1 maps it to OpenQuoteTilde (1).  The default is 0.
.LI "applicationKeypadMode"
Specifies that the application running in the window take control of the keypad.
The default is false.
.LI "autoRepeatEnable"
Specifies that autorepeat be enabled.  The default is On.
.LI "autoResizeTerminal"
Specifies that \*Ldxterm\*O changes the logical display size to match
the window size when the user changes the window size. The default is Off.
.LI "autoResizeWindow"
Specifies that the \*Ldxterm\*O window automatically resize itself to match
the logical display size whenever the logical display size changes.  Note that
this may interfere with other windows on the display.  The default is On.
.LI "autoWrapEnable"
Specifies that autowrap mode be enabled. The default is Off.
.LI "backarrowKey"
Specifies the back arrow key code.  This code can be delete (1) or
backspace (0). The default is 1.
.LI "backingStoreEnable"
Specifies whether dxterm should create a pixmap to allow graphics to be
redrawn when the window is exposed.  The default is On.
.LI "batchScrollCount"
Specifies how many lines can be scrolled at once.  The \*Ldxterm\*O
application never scrolls more than the total number of
lines on the screen at once.  The default is 1000.
.LI "bigFontSetName"
Specifies the font used for the "big" font set.  The default
is -*-Terminal-*-*-*--18-*-*-*-*-*-*-*.  The font must be a fixed font.
.LI "bitPlanes"
Controls the number of bit planes used for graphics; 2 planes are
needed for VT240 emulation and 4 planes for VT340 emulation.  The default is 0,
which means to use 2 planes on systems with fewer than 8 hardware
planes, and 4 planes on systems with 8 or more hardware planes.
.LI "columns"
Specifies the width of the logical display in columns.  The default is 80.
.LI "condensedFont"
Specifies that the condensed font should be used.  The default is
to display the normal font (Off).
.LI "controlQSHold"
Specifies that the Ctrl\-S and the Ctrl\-Q keys hold and release
the display.  The default is On.
.LI "couplingHorizontal"
Specifies whether the window moves horizontally to follow the text
cursor when the cursor moves outside the window.
In this way, the cursor is always contained in the window. The default is Off.
.LI "couplingVertical"
Specifies whether the window moves vertically to follow the text cursor
when the cursor moves outside the window.
In this way, the cursor is always contained in the window. The default is Off.
.LI "cursorBlinkEnable"
Specifies whether the cursor blinks.  Specify On for a blinking cursor or
Off for one that does not blink.  The default is On.
.LI "cursorStyle"
Specifies the cursor style. Specify 0 for a block cursor or
1 for an underline cursor.  The default is 0.
.LI "eightBitCharacters"
Specifies that 8-bit characters are used in the VT300 terminal
modes.  If not selected, 7-bit NRCS characters are used.  The default is On.
.LI "fontSetSelection"
Specifies which font is used.  Specify 1 for little and 0 for big.  The
default is 1.
.LI "geometry"
Specifies the width,length, and location of the \*Ldxterm\*O window.
This is the same as the \*L\-geometry\*O command line flag.
.LI "iconName"
Specifies the name in the icon box.
.LI "iconNameWidth"
Specifies the width of the name in the icon box.
.LI "iconic"
Specifies whether the \*Ldxterm\*O window is initialized as an icon.
The default is Off.
.LI "keyboardDialect"
Selects the 7-bit national replacement character set (NRCS).  The choices
are: North American (0), Flemish (1), French Canadian (2), British (3),
Danish (4), Finnish (5), Austrian/German (6), Dutch (7), Italian (8),
Swiss French (9), Swiss German(10), Swedish (11), Norwegian (12),
Belgian/French (13), Spanish (14), Portuguese (15).  The default is 0.
.LI "littleFontSetName"
Specifies the font used for the "little" font set.  The default
is -*-Terminal-*-*-*--14-*-*-*-*-*-*-*.  The font must be a fixed font.
.LI "lockUDK"
Specifies that changes to UDK definitions are prevented.  The default is Off.
.LI "lockUserFeatures"
Specifies that changes to user features are prevented.  The default is Off.
.LI "macrographReportEnable"
Specifies that the ReGIS macrograph report command is enabled.
The default is Off.
.LI "marginBellEnable"
Specifies that the margin bell is turned on.  The default is Off.
.LI "newLineMode"
Specifies whether line-feed or newline mode is turned on.
The default is line-feed mode.
.LI "openQuoteTildeKey"
Specifies the mapping of the tilde key (~).  This mapping can be
either ApostropheTilde (0) or Escape (1).  The default is 0.
.LI "periodCommaKeys"
Specifies the mapping of the period and comma keys.  This mapping can be
either PeriodComma (0) or GreaterLessThan (1).  The default is 0.
.LI "responseDA"
Specifies the response to a Device Attributes (terminal ID) request.
The terminal ID can be VT100 (0), VT101 (1), VT102 (2), VT125 (3),
VT220 (4), VT240 (5), VT320 (6), VT330 (9), VT340 (7), or DECterm (8).
The default is 8.
.LI "reverseVideo"
Specifies that \*Ldxterm\*O reverse the color values
for foreground and background. The default is Off.
.LI "rows"
Specifies the height of the logical display in rows.  The default is 24.
.LI "saveErasedLines"
Specifies whether dxterm should scroll lines into the transcript
instead of erasing them.  The default is On.
.LI "saveLinesOffTop"
Specifies that a transcript of lines be saved off the top of a scrolled
display. The default is On.
.LI "screenMode"
Specifies the screen mode.  The screen mode can be dark on light or
light on dark.  The default is light on dark.
.LI "scrollHorizontal"
Specifies that a horizontal scroll bar be displayed in the \*Ldxterm\*O
window.  The default is Off.
.LI "scrollVertical"
Specifies that a vertical scroll bar be displayed in the \*Ldxterm\*O
window.  The default is Off.
.LI "shareColorMapEntries"
Controls whether DECterm uses shared, read-only color map entries for
graphics.  The default is Off, but the option is forced on if the
hardware color map is read-only.
.LI "statusDisplayEnable"
Specifies that the status line be displayed.  The default is false.
.LI "terminalDriverResize"
Specifies whether changing the size of the logical display changes the
size known to the terminal driver, and vice versa.  The default is On.
.LI "terminalMode"
Specifies the terminal operating mode.  The terminal operating mode can
be VT52 (0), VT100 (1), VT300_7bit (2), VT300_8bit (3)
.LI "textCursorEnable"
Specifies that the text cursor be enabled.  The default is On.
.LI "title"
Specifies the name in the title bar.
.LI "transcriptSize"
Specifies the maximum number of lines that can be recorded off the top
of the display.  The default is 500.
.LI "userPreferenceSet"
Specifies the user preference set to DEC (0) or ISO (1).  The default is 0.
.LI "warningBellEnable"
Specifies that the warning bell be turned on.  The default is On.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L~/.Xdefaults\*O"
.LI "\*L~/DXterm\*O"
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/DXterm\*O"
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*LX\*O(1X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
