.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dxvdoc.1X,v $ $Revision: 3.3.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/06 17:43:00 $
.\"
.TH dxvdoc 1X
.SH Name
\*Ldxvdoc\*O \- invokes CDA Viewer for DECwindows Motif displays
.SH Synopsis
.PP
\*Ldxvdoc\*O [ \*L-f\*O \*Vformat\*O ] [ \*L-O\*O \*Voptions-file\*O ] [\*L-r\*O ]
[\*L-w\*O \*Vpaper-width\*O] [\*L-h\*O \*Vpaper-height\*O] \*Vinputfile\*O
.SH Description
.iX "dxvdoc command"
The \*Ldxvdoc\*O
command invokes the CDA Viewer, which enables you to view
compound documents on a workstation running DECwindows Motif.
The \*Ldxvdoc\*O window contains a menu bar with menu items
that allow you to view additional
documents, change processing options, close open documents, or exit.
.PP
If you invoke \*Ldxvdoc\*O with no input file argument,
you can specify the first document using the file selection box.
If you want \*Ldxvdoc\*O
to read from standard input, you must enter
"\-" as the file argument. For example:
.oS
% cdoc \-s text file.lis | dxvdoc \-
.oE
The \*Ldxvdoc\*O command does not support reading viewing of
PostScript files from standard input. You must supply a filename
to view PostScript files.
.PP
The \*Ldxvdoc\*O command
supports command line parameters pertaining to \*LXtInitialize()\*O.
For example, \*L-d\*O \*Vnode\*O::0.
.SH Flags
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-f\*O \*Vformat\*O"
Specifies the format of \*Vinputfile\*O and invokes an appropriate
input converter as part of CDA. The DDIF, DTIF, and TEXT
converters are provided in the base system kit.
Other products can supply additional converters.
.IP
To view PostScript files on DECwindows Motif,
specify \*L-f ps\*O, if your system is connected
to displays with servers that contain the Display PostScript
extension. The CDA Viewer does not require an input converter
to display PostScript files.
.IP
Contact your system manager for a complete list of input
formats supported on your system. The default format is DDIF.
.LI "\*L-O\*O \*Voptions-file\*O"
Names the file passed to the input converter to control
specific processing options in that converter. Refer to your
documentation set for a description of converter options.
.IP
The options file has a default file type of \*L.cda_options\*O.
To restrict the option to either input or output, follow each
line of the options file by \*L_input\*O or \*L_output\*O.
The second word is a valid option preceded by one or more spaces,
tabs, or a slash (/) and can contain uppercase and lowercase
letters, numbers, dollar signs, and underlines. The case of
letters is not significant. If an option requires a value,
then spaces, tabs, or an equal sign can separate the
option from the value.
.IP
You can precede each line by spaces and tabs.
To terminate lines, use any character other than those
that you use to specify the format names and options.
The supplier of the front and back ends specifies
the syntax and interpretation of the text that follows the format name.
.IP
To specify several options for the same input or output format,
specify one option on a line. If you specify an invalid option
for an input or output format or an invalid value for an option,
the option may be ignored or an error message may be returned.
Each input or output format that supports processing options
specifies any restrictions or special formats required
when specifying options.
.IP
By default, any messages that occur during processing of the
options file are written to the system \*Vstandard error location\*O.
For those input formats that support a LOG option, messages
can be directed to a log file.
.LI "\*L-r\*O"
Specifies that the CDA Viewer is to override the format of
the document. If the \*L-r\*O
qualifier is not specified, the CDA Viewer retains the formatting
information stored in the document.
.LI "\*L-w\*O \*Vpaper-width\*O"
Specifies the paper width in units of characters. Each character unit
translates to 720 centipoints (7200 centipoints per inch or 10
characters per inch horizontally). The \*L-w\*O
qualifier always specifies the fallback
formatted document page width to be used when the \*L-r\*O
(override format) qualifier is specified or when the document has no
inherent format. If the \*L-w\*O
qualifier is not specified and if the document
has no inherent format, the default width is 85 characters, which is
equivalent to the default page width of 8.5 inches.
.LI  "\*L-h\*O \*Vpaper-height\*O
Specifies the paper height in units of characters. Each character unit
translates to 1200 centipoints (7200 centipoints per inch or
6 characters per inch vertically). The \*L-h\*O
qualifier always specifies the fallback
formatted document page height to be used when the \*L-r\*O
(override format) qualifier is specified or when the document has no
inherent format. If the \*L-h\*O qualifier is not specified and
if the document has no inherent format, the default height
is 66 lines, which is equivalent to the default page height of
11 inches.
.LE
.SH "See Also"
\*Lcdoc\*O(1),
\*Lddifanls\*O(1),
\*Lddifps\*O(1),
\*Lddiftext\*O(1),
\*Ldtifanls\*O(1),
\*Ldtifddif\*O(1),
\*Ltextddif\*O(1),
\*Lvdoc\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
