.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: echo.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/29 21:23:07 $
.\"
.\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH echo 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lecho\*O - Writes its arguments to standard output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.SS Current Syntax  (XPG4 conformant)
.sS
\*Lecho\*O
\*O[\*Vstring\*O\]
.sE
.SS Obsolescent Syntax  (not XPG4 conformant)
.sS
\*Lecho\*O [\*L-n\*O]
\*O[\*Vstring\*O\]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lecho\*O command writes the specified \*Vstring\*O to standard output.
.PP
.iX "echo command"
.iX "writing" "to standard output"
.iX "standard output" "writing to"
.PP
The \*Lecho\*O command can operate in one of two modes: XPG4 conformant
and not XPG4 conformant. The default mode is not XPG4 conformant. The
\*Lecho\*O command operates in XPG4 mode if the variable \*LDEC_XPG4\*O
is defined in your environment. In XPG4 mode, any \*L-n\*O operand is
treated as a string rather than as an option.
The arguments are separated by spaces and a newline character
follows the last \*Vstring\*O.  Use \*Lecho\*O to produce
diagnostic messages in command files and to send data into a pipe.
If there are no arguments, \*Lecho\*O outputs a newline character.
.PP
The \*Lecho\*O command described here is the program \*L/usr/bin/echo\*O.
Both \*Lcsh\*O and \*Lsh\*O contain built-in \*Lecho\*O subcommands, which do
not necessarily work in the same way as the \*L/usr/bin/echo\*O command.
.PP
The \*Lecho\*O command recognizes the following special characters:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\ea\*O"
Displays an alert character.
.LI "\*L\eb\*O"
Displays a backspace character.
.LI "\*L\ec\*O"
Suppresses the newline character.
All characters following \*L\ec\*O in the arguments are ignored.
.LI "\*L\ef\*O"
Displays a formfeed character.
.LI "\*L\en\*O"
Displays a newline character.
.LI "\*L\er\*O"
Displays a carriage-return character.
.LI "\*L\et\*O"
Displays a tab character.
.LI "\*L\ev\*O"
Displays a vertical tab character.
.LI "\*L\e\e\*O"
Displays a backslash character.
.LI "\*L\e\*Vnumber\*O"
Displays an 8-bit character whose value is the 1-, 2- or
3-digit octal number, \*Vnumber\*O.  The first digit of \*Vnumber\*O
must be a 0 (zero).
.LE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 3m
.LI  "\*L-n\*O"
No newline is added to the output.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To write a message to standard output, enter:
.iS
echo Please insert diskette . . .
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To display a message containing special characters as listed
in \*LDESCRIPTION\*O, enclose the message in quotes, as follows:
.iS
echo "\en\en\enI'm at lunch.\enI'll be back at 1 p.m."
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This skips three lines and displays the message:
.oS
I'm at lunch.
I'll be back at 1 p.m.
\*O\c
.oE
.IP
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.rS 5
Note that you must enclose the message in quotation marks if
it contains escape sequences such as \*L\en\*O.
Otherwise, the shell treats the \*L\e\*O (backslash) as an escape character.
The above command, entered without the quotes, results in the following
output:
.oS
nnnI'm at lunch.nI'll be back at 1 p.m.
\*O\c
.oE
.rE
.LI
To use \*Lecho\*O with pattern-matching characters, enter:
.iS
echo The back-up files are: *.bak
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This displays the message \*CThe back-up files are:\*O and then displays
the filenames in the current directory ending with \*L.bak\*O.
.LI
To add a single line of text to a file, enter:
.iS
echo Remember to set the shell search path to $PATH. >>notes
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This adds the message to the end of the file \*Lnotes\*O after
the shell substitutes the value of the \*LPATH\*O shell variable.
.LI
To write a message to the standard error output
(\*Lsh\*O only), enter:
.iS
echo Error: file already exists. >&2
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
Use this in shell procedures to write error messages.  If the
\*L>&2\*O is omitted, then the message is written to the standard
output.
.LE
.SS Future Directions
Future releases will provide the XPG4 conformant behaviour as the
default behaviour. The \*L-n\*O option is being phased out of use. See
the \*Lprintf\*O manpage for use in portable applications.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lcsh\*O(1), \*Lksh\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
