.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" 
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: emacs.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/12/01 11:35:51 $
.\" 
.TH emacs 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lemacs\*O, \*Lxemacs\*O \- GNU project Emacs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Lemacs\*O [\*Vcommand-line switches\*O] [\*Vfile ...\*O]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "editor" "emacs"
.iX "emacs"
.iX "GNU emacs"
.iX "xemacs"
.iX "text editor" "emacs"
\*LGNU Emacs\*O is a new version of \*LEmacs\*O, written by the author
of the original (PDP-10) \*LEmacs,\*O Richard Stallman.
Its user functionality encompasses  everything other \*LEmacs\*O
editors do, and it is easily extensible since its editing commands are
written in Lisp.
.PP
\*LEmacs\*O has an extensive interactive help facility, but to use it
you must know how to manipulate \*LEmacs\*O windows and buffers.
\*CCTRL-h\*O (backspace or CTRL-h) enters the Help facility.
\*CHelp Tutorial\*O (CTRL-h t) requests an interactive tutorial which
can teach beginners the fundamentals of \*LEmacs\*O in a few minutes.
\*CHelp Apropos\*O (CTRL-h a) helps you find a command given its
functionality, \*CHelp Character\*O (Ctrl-h c) describes a given
character's effect, and \*CHelp Function\*O (CTRL-h f) describes a
given Lisp function specified by name.
.PP
\*LEmacs\*O's \*CUndo\*O command can undo several steps of
modification to your buffers, so it is easy to recover from editing
mistakes.
.\" .PP
.\" \*VGNU Emacs's\*O
.\" many special packages handle mail reading (RMail) and sending (Mail),
.\" outline editing (Outline), compiling (Compile), running subshells
.\" within
.\" \*LEmacs\*O
.\" windows (Shell), running a Lisp read-eval-print loop
.\" (Lisp-Interaction-Mode), and automated psychotherapy (Doctor).
.PP
There is an extensive reference manual, but users of other Emacses
should have little trouble adapting even without a copy.
Users new to \*LEmacs\*O will be able to use basic features fairly
rapidly by studying the tutorial and using the self-documentation
features.
.PP
.SS "General Emacs Options"
The following options are of general interest:
.VL 6m
.LI "\*Vfile\*O"
Edit \*Vfile\*O.
.LI "\*L\+\*Vnumber\*O"
Go to the line specified by \*Vnumber\*O.
(Do not insert a space between the \*L+\*O sign and the number.)
.LI "\*L\-q\*O"
Do not load an init file.
.LI "\*L\-u \*Vuser\*O"
Load \*Vuser\*O's init file.
.LI "\*L\-t file\*O"
Use specified \*Vfile\*O
as the terminal instead of using stdin/stdout.
This must be the first argument specified in the command line.
.LE
.SS "Lisp Options"
The following options are lisp-oriented.
These options are processed in the order encountered.
.VL 6m
.LI "\*L\-f function\*O"
Execute the lisp function \*Vfunction\*O.
.LI "\*L \-l file\*O"
Load the lisp code in the file \*Vfile\*O.
.LE
.SS "Batch Options"
The following options are useful when running \*LEmacs\*O as a batch
editor:
.VL 6m
.LI "\*L\-batch \*Vcommandfile\*O"
Edit in batch mode, using the commands found in \*Vcommandfile\*O.
The editor will send messages to stdout.
This option must be the first in the argument list.
.LI "\*L\-kill\*O"
Exit \*LEmacs\*O while in batch mode.
.LE
.\" START DELETING HERE IF YOU'RE NOT USING X
.SS "Using Emacs with X"
\*LEmacs\*O has been tailored to work with the X window system.
If you run \*LEmacs\*O from under X windows, it will create its own X
window in which to display.
You will probably want to start the editor as a background process
(\*Lemacs &\*O) so that you can continue using your original window.
.PP
\*LEmacs\*O
can be started with the following X switches:
.VL 6m
.LI "\*L\-rn name\*O"
Specifies the program name which should be used when looking up
defaults in the user's X resources.
This must be the first option specified in the command line.
.LI "\*L\-wn name\*O"
Specifies the name which should be assigned to the \*LEmacs\*O
window.
.LI "\*L\-r\*O"
Display the \*LEmacs\*O window in reverse video.
.LI "\*L\-i\*O"
Use the ``kitchen sink'' bitmap icon when iconifying the \*LEmacs\*O
window.
.LI "\*L\-font \*Vfont\*O, \*L\-fn \*Vfont\*O"
Set the \*LEmacs\*O window's font to that specified by \*Vfont\*O.
You will find the various \*VX\*O fonts in the
\*C/usr/lib/X11/fonts\*O directory.
.IP
Note that \*LEmacs\*O will only accept fixed-width fonts.
Under the X11 Release 4 font-naming conventions, any font with the
value ``m'' or ``c'' in the eleventh field of the font name is a fixed
width font.  Furthermore, fonts whose name are of the form
\*Vwidth x height\*O are generally fixed-width, as is the font
\*Vfixed\*O.
.\" See
.\" .IR xlsfonts (1)
.\" for more information.
.IP
When you specify a font, be sure to put a space between the
switch and the font name.
.LI "\*L\-b pixels\*O"
Set the \*LEmacs\*O window's border width to the number of pixels
specified by \*Vpixels\*O.
Defaults to one pixel on each side of the window.
.LI "\*L\-ib pixels\*O"
Set the window's internal border width to the number of pixels specified
by \*Vpixels\*O.
Defaults to one pixel of padding on each side of the window.
.LI "\*L\-w \*Vgeometry\*O, \*L\-geometry \*Vgeometry\*O"
Set the \*LEmacs\*O
window's width, height, and position as specified.
The geometry specification is in the standard X format; see
\*LX\*O(1X) for more information.
The width and height are specified in characters.
The default is 80 by 24.
.LE
.SS "Color Options"
The following options let you specify colors for an \*LEmacs\*O window
on color displays.
.VL 6m
.LI "\*L \-fg \*Vcolor\*O"
Sets the color of the text.
See the file \*C/usr/lib/X11/rgb.txt\*O for a list of valid color
names.
.LI "\*L\-bg \*Vcolor\*O"
Sets the color of the window's background.
.LI "\*L\-bd \*Vcolor\*O"
Sets the color of the window's border.
.LI "\*L\-cr \*Vcolor\*O"
Sets the color of the window's text cursor.
.LI "\*L\-ms \*Vcolor\*O"
Sets the color of the window's mouse cursor.
.LE
.SS "X Window Options"
The following options let you determine various aspects of how
\*LEmacs\*O interacts with your \*LX\*O window environment.
.VL 6m
.LI "\*L\-d \*Vdisplayname\*O,  \*L\-display \*Vdisplayname\*O"
Create the \*LEmacs\*O window on the display specified by
\*Vdisplayname\*O.
Must be the first option specified in the command line.
.LI "\*L\-nw\*O"
Tells \*LEmacs\*O not to use its special interface to X.
If you use this switch when invoking \*LEmacs\*O from an
\*Lxterm\*O(1X) window, display is done in that window.
This must be the first option specified in the command line.
.LE
.SS "X Window Keywords"
You can set \*VX\*O default values for your \*LEmacs\*O windows in
your \*L\.Xresources\*O file, using the following format:
.\" (see
.\" .IR xrdb (1)).
.iS
    emacs.keyword:value
.iE
.PP
where \*Vvalue\*O specifies the default value of \*Vkeyword\*O.
\*LEmacs\*O lets you set default values for the following keywords:
.VL 6m
.LI "\*Lfont (\*Oclass\*L Font)\*O"
Sets the window's text font.
.LI "\*LreverseVideo (\*Oclass\*L ReverseVideo)\*O"
If \*VreverseVideo\*O's value is set to \*Von\*O,
the window will be displayed in reverse video.
.LI "\*LbitmapIcon (\*Oclass\*L BitmapIcon)\*O"
If \*VbitmapIcon\*O's value is set to \*Von\*O,
the window will iconify into the ``kitchen sink.''
.LI "\*LborderWidth (\*Oclass\*L BorderWidth)\*O"
Sets the window's border width in pixels.
.LI "\*LinternalBorder (\*Oclass\*L BorderWidth)\*O"
Sets the window's internal border width in pixels.
.LI "\*Lforeground (\*Oclass\*L Foreground)\*O"
For color displays, sets the window's text color.
.LI "\*Lbackground (\*Oclass\*L Background)\*O"
For color displays, sets the window's background color.
.LI "\*LborderColor (\*Oclass\*L BorderColor)\*O"
For color displays, sets the color of the window's border.
.LI "\*LcursorColor (\*Oclass\*L Foreground)\*O"
For color displays, sets the color of the window's text cursor.
.LI "\*LpointerColor (\*Oclass\*L Foreground)\*O"
For color displays, sets the color of the window's mouse cursor.
.LI "\*Lgeometry (\*Oclass\*L Geometry)\*O"
Sets the geometry of the \*LEmacs\*O window (as described above).
.LI "\*Ltitle (\*Oclass\*L Title)\*O"
Sets the title of the \*LEmacs\*O window.
.LI "\*LiconName (\*Oclass\*L Title)\*O"
Sets the icon name for the \*LEmacs\*O window icon.
.LE
.PP
If you try to set color values while using a black and white display,
the window's characteristics will default as follows:
.nf
	\*L\(bu\*O\  The foreground color will be set to black
	\*L\(bu\*O\  The background color will be set to white
	\*L\(bu\*O\  The border color will be set to grey.
	\*L\(bu\*O\  The text and mouse cursors will be set to black.
.fi
.SS "Using the Mouse"
The following mouse button bindings apply for the \*LEmacs\*O
window under X11:
.nL
.br
.ne 2.5i
.TS
center tab(@);
cb s s
l l l
l l l.
GNU Emacs Key Bindings for X Windows
=
Key\ @Button\ @Function\*O
_
Unshifted\ @left\ @x-mouse-set-mark
\^@middle\ @x-mouse-set-point
\^@right\ @x-mouse-select
_
Control\ @middle\ @x-cut-and-wipe-text
\^@right\ @x-mouse-select-and-split
_
Shift\ @middle\ @x-cut-text
\^@right\ @x-paste-text
_
Control-Shift\ @left\ @x-buffer-menu
\^@middle\ @x-help
\^@right\ @x-mouse-keep-one-window
.TE
.\" 
.\" .in +\w'CTRL-SHIFT-middle'u+4n
.\" .ta \w'CTRL-SHIFT-middle'u+4n
.\" .ti -\w'CTRL-SHIFT-middle'u+4n
.\" MOUSE BUTTON FUNCTION
.\" \*L\*O
.\" .ti -\w'CTRL-SHIFT-middle'u+4n
.\" left Set point.
.\" \*L\*O
.\" .ti -\w'CTRL-SHIFT-middle'u+4n
.\" middle Paste text.
.\" \*L\*O
.\" .ti -\w'CTRL-SHIFT-middle'u+4n
.\" right Cut text into X cut buffer.
.\" \*L\*O
.\" .ti -\w'CTRL-SHIFT-middle'u+4n
.\" SHIFT-middle Cut text into X cut buffer.
.\" \*L\*O
.\" .ti -\w'CTRL-SHIFT-middle'u+4n
.\" SHIFT-right Paste text.
.\" \*L\*O
.\" .ti -\w'CTRL-SHIFT-middle'u+4n
.\" CTRL-middle Cut text into X cut buffer and kill it.
.\" \*L\*O
.\" .ti -\w'CTRL-SHIFT-middle'u+4n
.\" CTRL-right Select this window, then split it into
.\" two windows.  Same as typing CTRL-x 2.
.\" .\" START DELETING HERE IF YOU'RE NOT USING X MENUS
.\" \*L\*O
.\" .ti -\w'CTRL-SHIFT-middle'u+4n
.\" CTRL-SHIFT-left X buffer menu--hold the buttons and keys
.\" down, wait for menu to appear, select
.\" buffer, and release.  Move mouse out of
.\" menu and release to cancel.
.\" \*L\*O
.\" .ti -\w'CTRL-SHIFT-middle'u+4n
.\" CTRL-SHIFT-middle X help menu--pop up index card menu for
.\" Emacs help.
.\" .\" STOP DELETING HERE IF YOU'RE NOT USING X MENUS
.\" \*L\*O
.\" .ti -\w'CTRL-SHIFT-middle'u+4n
.\" CTRL-SHIFT-right Select window with mouse, and delete all
.\" other windows.  Same as typing CTRL-x 1.
.\" .\" STOP DELETING HERE IF YOU'RE NOT USING X
.SH NOTES
.PP
.SS "Manuals"
PostScript files of the \*LEmacs\*O manuals are located in
\*C/usr/lib/emacs/doc\*O.
.PP
You can order printed copies of the
\*EGNU Emacs Manual\*O
from the Free Software Foundation, which develops GNU software.
Contact them for the price of the manual.  Their address is:
.nf
    Free Software Foundation
    675 Mass Ave.
    Cambridge, MA 02139
.fi
As with all software and publications from FSF, everyone is permitted to
make and distribute copies of the \*LEmacs\*O manual.
The TeX source to the manual is included in the \*LEmacs\*O source
distribution.
.br
.SS "Authors"
\*LEmacs\*O
was written by Richard Stallman and the Free Software Foundation.
Joachim Martillo and Robert Krawitz added the X features.
.br
.SH FILES
.PP
\*C/usr/lib/emacs/src\*O - C source files and object files
.PP
\*C/usr/lib/emacs/lisp\*O - Lisp source files and compiled files
that define most editing commands.  Some are preloaded;
others are autoloaded from this directory when used.
.\" .PP
.\" /usr/local/emacs/man - sources for the \*LEmacs\*O reference manual.
.PP
\*C/usr/lib/emacs/etc\*O - various programs that are used with
GNU Emacs, and some files of information.
.PP
\*C/usr/lib/emacs/etc/DOC.*\*O - contains the documentation
strings for the Lisp primitives and preloaded Lisp functions
of GNU Emacs.  They are stored here to reduce the size of
\*LEmacs\*O proper.
.PP
\*C/usr/lib/emacs/etc/DIFF\*O discusses GNU Emacs vs. Twenex Emacs;
.PP
\*C/usr/lib/emacs/etc/CCADIFF\*O discusses GNU Emacs vs. CCA Emacs;
.PP
\*C/usr/lib/emacs/etc/GOSDIFF\*O discusses GNU Emacs vs. Gosling Emacs.
.\" .PP
.\" /usr/local/emacs/etc/SERVICE lists people offering various services
.\" to assist users of GNU Emacs, including education, troubleshooting,
.\" porting and customization.
.PP
These files also have information useful to anyone wishing to write
programs in the \*LEmacs\*O Lisp extension language, which has not yet
been fully documented.
.PP
\*C/usr/lib/emacs/info\*O - files for the Info documentation browser
(a subsystem of \*LEmacs\*O) to refer to.  Currently not much of UNIX
is documented here, but the complete text of the \*LEmacs\*O reference
manual is included in a convenient tree structured form.
.PP
.\" START DELETING HERE IF YOU'RE NOT USING X
\*C/usr/lib/X11/rgb.txt\*O - list of valid X color names.
.\" STOP DELETING HERE IF YOU'RE NOT USING X
.\"
.\" /usr/lib/emacs/lock - holds lock files that are made for all
.\" files being modified in Emacs, to prevent simultaneous modification
.\" of one file by two users.
.\"
.\" /usr/local/emacs/cpp - the GNU cpp, needed for building Emacs on
.\" certain versions of UNIX where the standard cpp cannot handle long
.\" names for macros.
.\"
.\" /usr/local/emacs/shortnames - facilities for translating long names to
.\" short names in C code, needed for building Emacs on certain versions
.\" of UNIX where the C compiler cannot handle long names for functions
.\" or variables.
.\" .PP
.\" .SH BUGS
.\" There is a mailing list, bug-gnu-emacs@prep.ai.mit.edu on the internet
.\" (ucbvax!prep.ai.mit.edu!bug-gnu-emacs on UUCPnet), for reporting Emacs
.\" bugs and fixes.  But before reporting something as a bug, please try
.\" to be sure that it really is a bug, not a misunderstanding or a
.\" deliberate feature.  We ask you to read the section ``Reporting Emacs
.\" Bugs'' near the end of the reference manual (or Info system) for hints
.\" on how and when to report bugs.  Also, include the version number of
.\" the Emacs you are running in \*Vevery\*O bug report that you send in.
.\"
.\" Do not expect a personal answer to a bug report.  The purpose of reporting
.\" bugs is to get them fixed for everyone in the next release, if possible.
.\" For personal assistance, look in the SERVICE file (see above) for
.\" a list of people who offer it.
.\"
.\" Please do not send anything but bug reports to this mailing list.
.\" Send requests to be added to mailing lists to the special list
.\" info-gnu-emacs-request@prep.ai.mit.edu (or the corresponding UUCP
.\" address).  For more information about Emacs mailing lists, see the
.\" file /usr/local/emacs/etc/MAILINGLISTS.  Bugs tend actually to be
.\" fixed if they can be isolated, so it is in your interest to report
.\" them in such a way that they can be easily reproduced.
.\" .PP
.\" Bugs that I know about are: shell will not work with programs
.\" running in Raw mode on some UNIX versions.
.SH UNRESTRICTIONS
.PP
\*LEmacs\*O is free; anyone may redistribute copies of \*LEmacs\*O to
anyone under the terms stated in the \*LEmacs\*O General Public
License, a copy of which accompanies each copy of \*LEmacs\*O, and
which also appears in the reference manual.
.PP
Copies of \*LEmacs\*O may sometimes be received packaged with
distributions of UNIX systems, but it is never included in the scope
of any license covering those systems.
Such inclusion violates the terms on which distribution is permitted.
In fact, the primary purpose of the General Public License is to
prohibit anyone from attaching any other restrictions to
redistribution of \*LEmacs\*O.
.PP
Richard Stallman encourages you to improve and extend \*LEmacs\*O,
and urges that you contribute your extensions to the GNU library.
Eventually \*LGNU\*O (GNU's Not UNIX) will be a complete replacement
for Berkeley UNIX.
Everyone will be able to use the GNU system for free.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:
\*LX\*O(1X), \*Lxterm\*O(1X)
.\" xlsfonts(1), xrdb(1) -listed in original manpage, but are not in
.\" Tin release.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
