.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: env.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/15 20:07:03 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH env 1
.SH NAME
\*Lenv\*O, \*Lprintenv\*O \- Displays or sets the current environment, or displays the values of environment variables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.SS Current Syntax
.sS
\*Lenv\*O
\*O[\*L-i\*O]
\*O[\*Vname\*L=\*Vvalue\*O
\&.\&.\&.]
\*O[\*Vcommand\*O]
\*O[\*Vargs\*O
\&.\&.\&.]
.br
\*Vprintenv\*O
\*O[\*Vname\*O]
.sE
.SS Obsolescent Syntax
.sS
\*Lenv\*O
\*O[\*L-\*O]
\*O[\*Vname\*L=\*Vvalue\*O
\&.\&.\&.]
\*O[\*Vcommand\*O]
\*O[\*Vargs\*O
\&.\&.\&.]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "env command"
.iX "commands" "execution environment"
.iX "setting" "command execution environment"
.iX "printenv command"
.iX "environment" "command execution"
.iX "execution" "environment for commands"
.iX "displaying" "command execution environment"
The \*Lenv\*O command lets you get and change your
current environment, and then run the specified command with the
changed environment.  Changes in the form
\*Vname\*L=\*Vvalue\*O are added to the current
environment before the command is run.  If the \*L-i\*O flag is used,
the current environment is ignored and the command runs with only the
changed environment.  Changes are only in effect while the specified
command is running.
.PP
If \*Vcommand\*O is not specified, \*Lenv\*O displays
your current environment, one \*Vname\*L=\*Vvalue\*O pair per
line.
.PP
The \*Lprintenv\*O command displays the values of the variables in the
environment.
If \*Vname\*O is specified, only its value is printed.
If \*Vname\*O is not specified, \*Lprintenv\*O displays the
current environment, one \*Vname\*L=\*Vvalue\*O per line.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
The following options are supported:
.VL 3m
.LI "\*L-i\*O"
Invoke \*Lutility\*O with exactly the environment specified by the arguments; the inherited
environment will be ignored completely.  Changes are in effect only while the specified
command is running.
.LI "\*L-\*O"
Dash is equivalent to \*L-i\*O flag.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To add a shell variable to the environment for the duration of one
command (\*Lsh\*O only), enter:
.iS
TZ=MST7MDT date
env TZ=MST7MDT date
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
Each of these commands displays the current date and time in Mountain
Standard Time.  The two commands shown are equivalent.
When \*Ldate\*O is finished, the previous value of \*LTZ\*O
takes effect again.
.LI
To replace the environment with another one, enter:
.iS
env -i PATH=$PATH IDIR=/u/jim/include LIBDIR=/u/jim/lib make
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This runs \*Lmake\*O in an environment that consists
only of these definitions for \*LPATH\*O,
\*LIDIR\*O, and \*LLIBDIR\*O.  You must redefine
\*LPATH\*O so that the shell can find the \*Lmake\*O command.
.IP
When \*Lmake\*O is finished, the previous environment takes
effect again.
.LI
To find the current setting of the \*LTERM\*O environment
variable, enter:
.iS
printenv TERM
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The command returns the value for the \*LTERM\*O environment variable.
.LE
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
If \*Vcommand\*O is specified, the exit status of \*Venv\*O is the exit status of
\*Vcommand\*O; otherwise, the \*Venv\*O utility exits with one of the following values:
.VL 3m
.LI "\*L0\*O"
The \*Venv\*O utility completed successfully.
.LI "\*L1-25\*O"
An error occurred in the \*Venv\*O utility.
.LI "126\*O"
The command specified by \*Vcommand\*O was found but could not be invoked.
.LI "\*L127\*O"
The command specified by \*Vcommand\*O could not be found.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcsh\*O(1), \*Lksh\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1).
.PP
Functions:  \*Lexec\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
