.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: eucset.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/15 19:41:38 $
.\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH eucset 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Leucset\*O - Sets and gets EUC code widths for the terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "eucset command"
.iX "setting" "terminal character widths"
.iX "terminals" "character widths"
.iX "characters" "width"
.sS
\*Leucset\*O
\*O[\*Vcswidth\*O]
.PP
\*Leucset\*O
\*L\(hyp\*O
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Displays the current settings of the EUC character widths for the terminal
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Leucset\*O command sets or gets the encoding and display widths
of the Extended UNIX Code (EUC) characters processed by the current
input terminal.
EUC is an encoding method for code sets composed of single or
multiple bytes.
It permits applications and the terminal hardware to use
the 7-bit US ASCII code and up to three single- or multibyte code
sets simultaneously.
.PP
If you use the \*Leucset\*O command to set EUC character widths, but do not
specify the \*Vcswidth\*O argument, 7-bit U.S. ASCII is applied
as a default code set.
You must use the command to specify any other EUC code sets,
whether they are single-byte or multibyte.
.SS EUC Code Set Classes
EUC divides code sets into four classes.
Each code set class has two characteristics: the number of bytes
for encoding the characters in the class, and the number of display
columns to display the characters in the class.  All characters
within a class possess the same characteristics.
.PP
Class 0 consists of all 7-bit, single-byte ASCII characters.  The
most-significant bit of each of these characters is 0 (zero).  Characters
in class 0 require one byte for encoding,
and occupy one display column.  These values are fixed for class 0 (zero).
The 7-bit US ASCII code is the primary EUC code set,
which is available to users without direct specification.
.PP
A class 1 code set is a supplementary EUC code set.
Class 1 characters have an initial byte whose most-significant bit
is 1.  If character classes 2 or 3 are to be used, this initial
byte must not be the SS2 or SS3 character, as these designate
character classes 2 and 3.  Characters in class 1 may require more
than 1 byte for encoding, and may require more than 1 display
column.  The \*Leucset\*O command must be used to set the
characteristics for code set class 1.
.PP
Class 2 and 3 code sets are supplementary EUC code sets.
Characters in these classes have an initial byte of SS2 or
SS3, respectively.  They require more
than 1 byte for encoding, and may require more than 1 display
column. The \*Leucset\*O command must be used to set the
characteristics for code set classes 2 and 3.
.PP
The \*Vcswidth\*O argument in the \*Leucset\*O command line
is a character string that describes the character widths
for code set classes 1 through 3.  The string is of the following format:
.PP
.iS
\*VX1\*O[\*L:\*VY1\*O] \*L,\*VX2\*O[\*L:\*VY2\*O] \*L,\*VX3\*O[\*L:\*VY3\*O]
.iE
.PP
The value \*VX1\*O is the number of bytes required to encode a
character in code set class 1.  \*VY1\*O is the number of display columns
needed to display characters in this class.  \*VX2\*O is the number of
bytes required to encode a character in code set class 2, not counting the
SS2 byte, and \*VY2\*O is the number of display columns for code set class 2
characters.  \*VX3\*O is the number of bytes needed to encode
characters in code set class 3, not counting the SS3 byte, and \*VY3\*O is
the number of display columns required for these characters.
The values for the column widths can be omitted if they are equal to
the number of encoding bytes.
If the encoding value of any of the EUC code sets is set to \*L0\*O
(zero), this indicates that the code set does not exist.
.PP
If no \*Vcswidth\*O argument is supplied, the \*Leucset\*O command uses the
value of the \*LCSWIDTH\*O environment variable.
If this variable is not present, the default string \*L1:1,0:0,0:0\*O
is substituted.
This default string designates that the environment uses a
single-byte EUC code set that has characters in the EUC code set class 1
format.
If the environment uses a mutibyte EUC code set in the code set class 1
format, single- or multibyte EUC code sets in the code set class 2 or 3 format,
or both, the default setting cannot be used.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To display the encoding and display widths for the EUC code set classes
1-3 in your environment, enter:
.sp 0.4v
.iS
eucset -p
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To change the current settings of the encoding and display widths for
the EUC characters in code set classes 1 and 2 to 2 bytes each, enter:
.sp 0.4v
.iS
eucset 2:2,2:2,0:0
.iE
.sp 0.4v
or
.sp 0.4v
.iS
eucset 2,2,0
.iE
.LE
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Lnot a tty\*O"
Your standard input is not an interactive terminal.
.LI "\*Lioctl error\*O"
The maximum character width of 8 was exceeded.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Interfaces: \*Leucioctl\*O(7).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
