.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: expand.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/13 21:25:06 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH expand 1
.SH NAME
\*Lexpand\*O, \*Lunexpand\*O \- Replaces tab characters with spaces or spaces with tab characters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.sS
.SS Current syntax
\*Lexpand\*O
\*O[\*L-t\ \*Vtablist\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O\ \&...]
.IP
\*Lunexpand\*O
\*O[\*L\(hya\*O]
\*O[\*L-t\ \*Vtablist\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O\ \&...]
.SS Obsolescent syntax
\*Lexpand\*O
\*O[\*L\(hy\*Vtabstop\*O\ |\ \*L\(hy\*Vtab1,tab2,\&...,tabn\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O\ \&...]
.sE
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.IP
The \*Lexpand\*O command changes tab characters to spaces in the
named files, or the standard input, and writes the result to
the standard output.
.IP
The \*Lunexpand\*O command puts tab characters back into the data
from the standard input, or the named files, and writes the result to
the standard output.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Replaces spaces at the beginning of each line with a tab, and
inserts tab characters wherever their presence compresses the resultant
file by replacing two or more characters.  When the \*L-t\*O flag is
specified with the \*Lunexpand\*O command, the \*L-a\*O flag has no effect.
(\*Lunexpand\*O command only)
.LI "\*L-t \*Vtablist\*O"
Specifies the tab stops.  The \*Vtablist\*O argument consists of a
single positive decimal integer or multiple positive decimal integers,
separated by spaces or commas, in ascending order.  If a single number
is specified, tabs are set \*Vtablist\*O column positions apart
instead of the default (8).  If multiple numbers are specified, tabs
are set at those specific column positions.  Tabbing to tab stop
position \*Vn\*O thus causes the next character output to be in the
(\*Vn\*O+1)th column position on that line.
.IP
If \*Lexpand\*O has to process a tab character at a position beyond
the last of those specified in a multiple tab stop list, the tab
character is replaced by a single space in the output.
.LI "\*L-\*Vtabstop\*O"
Sets tab stops \*Vtabstop\*O spaces apart instead of the default (8).
(Obsolescent)
.LI "\*L-\*Vtab1\*O, \*Vtab2\*O, \&.\&.\&., \*Vtabn\*O"
Sets tab stops at specified columns.  Columns are measured in bytes.
(Obsolescent)
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "expand command"
.iX "unexpand command"
.iX "replacing" "spaces and tab characters"
.iX "spaces" "replacing with tab characters"
.iX "tabs" "replacing with spaces"
.PP
Backspace characters are preserved
in the output and decrement the column count
for tab calculations. The column position count cannot be decremented below zero. The \*Lexpand\*O command is useful for preprocessing character files (before sorting, looking
at specific columns, and so on.) that contain tab characters.
.PP
By default, \*Lunexpand\*O converts only spaces that are within sequences of
spaces and tab characters at the beginnings of lines.  Use \*L-a\*O to convert
other sequences of spaces.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To replace tab characters in \*Lfile\*O with spaces, enter:
.iS
expand file
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To replace the spaces in \*Lfile\*O with tab characters, enter:
.iS
unexpand -a file
\*O\c
.iE
.LE
.EQ
delim off
.EN
