.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: file.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/30 16:21:42 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH file 1
.SH NAME
\*Lfile\*O \- Determines file type
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lfile\*O
\*O[\*L-c\*O]
\*O[\*L-f\*O
\*Vfile_list\*O]
\*O[\*L-m\*O
\*Vmagic_file\*O]
\*Vfile\*O
\&...
.sE
.PP
The \*Lfile\*O command reads input files and performs a
series of tests on each one. It then attempts to classify them by
type and writes the file types to standard output.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "file command"
.iX "type" "file"
.iX "files" "determining type"
The \*Lfile\*O command uses the \*L/etc/magic\*O file to
identify files that have some sort of a magic number (that
is, any file containing a numeric or string constant that
indicates its type).
.PP
If a file appears to be plain text, \*Lfile\*O examines the
first 512 bytes and tries to determine what kind of text it is.  If the
first 512 bytes only contain ASCII characters, \*Lfile\*O returns
either \*LASCII text\*O or \*LEnglish text\*O.
If the file contains
other characters (that is, European or Asian extended characters),
\*Lfile\*O returns \*Ldata\*O.
.PP
If a file does not appear to be plain
text, \*Lfile\*O attempts to distinguish a binary data file
from a text file that contains extended characters.  If the file is
an \*La.out\*O file and the version number is greater than zero,
\*Lfile\*O displays the version stamp.
.iX "files" "version stamp"
.iX "versions" "stamp" "file"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.PP
For character special files, part of the identification is information
about the devices the system shows as active. In particular, \*Lfile\*O
returns device-specific information such as controller type and unit,
device type and unit, and status (offline, write locked, density, errors).
The general categories currently implemented are disk, tape, and terminal
devices. The supported terminal devices include Local Area Terminals (LAT)
but not Local Area Network (LAN) pseudo-terminals.
.PP
The following example shows how the \*Lfile\*O command identifies a
device. Note that the output is shown on two lines due to space
considerations, but appears on one line on a DEC OSF/1 system.
.iS
 % file /dev/rrz0c
.iE
.oS
 /dev/rrz0c: character special (8/2) SCSI #0
 RZ24 disk #0 (SCSI ID #0)
.oE
On DEC OSF/1 systems, the \*Lfile\*O command recognizes OSF core files.
For example:
.iS
  % file core
.iE
.oS
  core:   core dump, generated from 'mwm'
.oE
.PP
The \*Lfile\*O command also uses internal tables to decode certain types
of files. The following example shows the keywords the \*Lfile\*O command
uses to locate troff, C code, and assembler code.
.oS
char  *troff[] = {    /* new troff intermediate lang */
      "x","T","res","init","font","202","V0","p1",0};
char  *c[] = {
      "int","char","float","double","struct","extern",0};
char  *as[] = {
      "globl","byte","align","text","data","comm",0};
.oE
.\" End Digital-specific information 
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-c\*O"
Checks the magic file (\*L/etc/magic\*O by default) for
format errors.  This validation is not normally done.  File
typing is not done under this flag.
.LI "\*L\-f\*V file_list\*O"
Reads \*Vfile_list\*O for a list of files to examine.
.LI "\*L\-m\*V magic_file\*O"
Specifies \*Vmagic_file\*O as the magic file
(\*L/etc/magic\*O by default).
.LE
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
The \*Lfile\*O command often does a poor job of distinguishing C programs,
shell scripts, English text, and ASCII text. In addition, it does not
recognize certain programming languages, including Modula, Pascal, and
Lisp.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To display the type of information a file contains, enter:
.iS
file myfile
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This displays the file type of \*Lmyfile\*O (directory,
data, ASCII text, C program source, archive, and so on).
.LI
To display the type of each file named in a list of filenames, enter:
.iS
file -f filenames
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This displays the type of each file with a name that appears
in \*Lfilenames\*O.  Each filename must appear alone on a line.
.IP
To create \*Lfilenames\*O, enter:
.iS
ls > filenames
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
Then edit \*Lfilenames\*O as desired.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/etc/magic\*O"
File type database
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.\" \*Lmagic\*O(4)
\*EProgrammer's Guide\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
