.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: find.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/15 19:33:06 $
.\" 
...\"
...\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
...\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail
...\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
...\"
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
.TH find 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lfind\*O - Finds files matching an expression
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "find command"
.iX "finding" "files matching an expression"
.iX "files" "finding"
.iX "expression" "matching"
.iX "matching an expression"
.sS
\*Lfind\*O
\*Vpathname\*O
\&...
\*Vexpression\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lfind\*O command recursively searches the directory tree for
each specified pathname, seeking files that match a Boolean
.gL "Boolean expression"
\*Vexpression\*O written using the terms given later.  The output
from \*Lfind\*O depends on the terms used in \*Vexpression\*O.
.SS Expressions
In the following descriptions, the argument \*Vnumber\*O is a decimal
integer that can be specified as \*L\(pl\*Vnumber\*O (more
than \*Vnumber\*O), \*L-\*Vnumber\*O (less than
\*Vnumber\*O), or \*Vnumber\*O (exactly \*Vnumber\*O).
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-fstype\*O \*Vtype\*O"
TRUE if the file system to which the file belongs is of the type \*Vtype\*O
as follows:
.VL 4m
.\" Begin Digital-specific information 
.\" Commenting out s5fs because it isn't supported for Version 1.2. (QAR 7858)
.\" .LI "\*Ls5fs\*O" 3m
.\" System V file system
.\" End Digital-specific information 
.LI "\*Lnfs\*O"
Network File System
.LI "\*Lpc\*O"
XENIX
.LI "\*Lufs\*O"
UNIX file system (Berkeley fast file system).  This is the default.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Commenting out mfs per QAR 9654
.\" .LI "\*Lmfs\*O" 3m
.\" Memory file system
.\" End Digital-specific information
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding a file type from an Environment Note.
.LI "\*Lcdfs\*O"
ISO 9660 CD-ROM (Compact Disk Read-Only Memory) file system
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LE
.LI "\*L-i\*O \*Vnumber\*O"
.LI "\*L-inum\*O \*Vnumber\*O"
TRUE if file has inode \*Vnumber\*O.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding an expression from an Environment Note.
.LI "\*L-mount\*O"
TRUE if the current file is on the same file system as the
current starting pathname.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L-name\*O \*Vfile\*O"
TRUE if \*Vfile\*O matches the filename.  You can use
pattern-matching characters, provided they are quoted.
In an expression such as \*L[a-z]\*O, the dash means
\*Vthrough\*O according to the current collating sequence.
.gL "collating sequence"
.gL "equivalence class"
The collating sequence is determined by the value of the \*LLC_COLLATE\*O
environment variable.
.\" See
...\" "Using Internationalization Features" in the
.\" \*(Gu
.\" for more information on collating sequences and equivalence classes.
.LI "\*L-perm\*O \*Voctal_number\*O"
TRUE if the file permission code of the file exactly matches
\*Voctal_number\*O (see the \*Lchmod\*O command).
.IP
The \*Voctal_number\*O argument may be up to three octal digits.
If you want to test the higher-order permission bits (the set-user-ID
bit or set-group-ID bit, for example), prefix the \*Voctal_number\*O
argument with a \- (dash).  This makes more flag bits
.gL "permissions"
significant (see the \*Lstat\*O system call for an explanation of
the additional bits), and also changes the comparison to
.iS
(\*Vflags\*L&\*Ooctal_number)==\*Voctal_number\*O
.iE
.LI "\*L-prune\*O"
Always TRUE.  Prunes the search tree
at the file.  That is, if the current pathname is a
directory, The \*Lfind\*O command does not descend into that directory.
In a networking environment, this flag keeps the \*Lfind\*O command from
searching through remote file systems.
.LI "\*L-type\*O \*Vtype\*O"
TRUE if the file \*Vtype\*O is of the specified type as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lb\*O"
Block special file
.LI "\*Lc\*O"
Character special file
.LI "\*Ld\*O"
Directory
.LI "\*Lf\*O"
Plain file
.LI "\*Ll\*O"
Symbolic link
.LI "\*Lp\*O"
FIFO (a named pipe)
.gL "FIFO"
.gL "First In First Out"
.LI "\*Ls\*O"
Socket
.LE
.LI "\*L-links\*O \*Vnumber\*O"
TRUE if the file has \*Vnumber\*O links.
See the \*Lln\*O command.
.LI "\*L-user\*O \*Vuser\*O"
TRUE if the file belongs to \*Vuser\*O.
If \*Vuser\*O is numeric and does not appear as a login name in the
\*L/etc/passwd\*O file, it is interpreted as a user ID.
.LI "\*L-group\*O \*Vgroup\*O"
TRUE if the file belongs to \*Vgroup\*O.
If \*Vgroup\*O is numeric and does not appear as a group name in the
\*L/etc/group\*O file, it is interpreted as a group ID.
.LI "\*L-size\*O \*Vnumber\*O"
TRUE if the file is \*Vnumber\*O blocks long (512 bytes per block).
.gL "block"
For this comparison, the file size is rounded up to the nearest block.
.LI "\*L-size\*O \*Vnumber\*Lk\*O"
TRUE if the file is \*Vnumber\*O kilobytes long.
For this comparison, the file size is rounded up to the nearest kilobyte.
.LI "\*L-size\*O \*Vnumber\*Lc\*O"
TRUE if the file is \*Vnumber\*O bytes long.
.LI "\*L-atime\*O \*Vnumber\*O"
TRUE if the file was accessed in the past \*Vnumber\*O days, where
\*Vnumber\*O is interpreted as described in this reference page.
.LI "\*L-mtime\*O \*Vnumber\*O"
TRUE if the file was modified in the past \*Vnumber\*O days, where
\*Vnumber\*O is interpreted as described in this reference page.
.LI "\*L-ctime\*O \*Vnumber\*O"
TRUE if the file inode was changed in the past \*Vnumber\*O days, where
\*Vnumber\*O is interpreted as described in this reference page.
.LI "\*L-exec\*O \*Vcommand\*O"
TRUE if the \*Vcommand\*O runs and returns a 0 (zero) value as exit
status.  The end of \*Vcommand\*O must be punctuated by a quoted or
escaped \*L;\*O (semicolon).  The command parameter { }
is replaced by the current pathname.
.LI "\*L-ok\*O \*Vcommand\*O"
The \*Lfind\*O command asks you whether it should start
\*Vcommand\*O.  If your response begins with \*Ly\*O,
or the locale's equivalent of a \*Ly\*O,
\*Vcommand\*O is started.  The end of \*Vcommand\*O must be punctuated
by a quoted or escaped semicolon.
.LI "\*L-print\*O"
Always TRUE; causes the current pathname to be displayed.
\*Lfind\*O does not display pathnames unless you specify this
expression term.
.LI "\*L-cpio\*O \*Vdevice\*O"
Writes the current file to \*Vdevice\*O in \*Lcpio\*O format.
See the \*Lcpio\*O command.
.LI "\*L-ncpio\*O \*Vsize\*O"
Sets the input/output size (5120 bytes by default) to \*Vsize\*O.
.LI "\*L-newer\*O \*Vfile\*O"
TRUE if the current file was modified more recently than the
file indicated by \*Vfile\*O.
.LI "\*L-depth\*O"
Always TRUE.  This causes the descent of the directory hierarchy to
be done so that all entries in a directory are affected before the
directory itself.  This can be useful when \*Lfind\*O is used with
\*Lcpio\*O to transfer files that are contained in directories
without write permission.
.LI "\*L\e(\*O \*Vexpression\*L \e) \*O"
TRUE if \*Vexpression\*O is TRUE.
.LI "\*L-ls\*O"
Always TRUE; causes \*Vpathname\*O to be printed together with
its associated statistics.  These include, respectively, inode
number, size in kilobytes (1024 bytes), protection mode, number of
hard links, user, group, size in bytes, and modification time.  If
the file is a special file, the size field will instead contain
the major and minor device numbers.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" According to QAR 4507 and its answer, the following sentences
.\" are not accurate for DEC OSF/1.  
.\" If the file is a symbolic link,
.\" the pathname of the linked-to file is printed preceded by
.\" \*L->\*O.  The format is identical to that of \*Lls -gilds\*O
.\" (note that formatting is done internally, without executing
.\" \*Lls\*O.)
.IP
The \*Lfind\*O command does not follow symbolic links to other directories
or files.  Rather, it applies the specified selection criteria
to the symbolic links themselves, treating them as if they were
ordinary files.  (For more information on symbolic links, see \*Lln\*O(1).)
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.LI "\*L-xdev\*O"
Always TRUE; causes \*Lfind\*O to not traverse down a file
system different from the one on which the current pathname resides.
.LE
.PP
The primaries may be combined using the following operators (in
descending order of precedence):
.AL
.LI
A parenthesized group of primaries and operators (parentheses are
special to the shell and must be escaped).
.LI
The negation of a primary (! is the unary \*Lnot\*O operator).
.LI
Concatenation of primaries (the \*Land\*O operation is
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.\" Added -a operator info
implied by the juxtaposition of two primaries but can also be specified
explicitly with the \*L\-a\*O operator).
.\" End Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.LI
Alternation of primaries (\*L-o\*O is the \*Lor\*O operator).
.LE
.PP
To avoid unpredictable results when using a range expression to match a class
of characters, use a character class expression rather than a standard
.gL "character class expression"
range expression.  For information about character class
expressions, see the \*Lgrep\*O command.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To list all files in the file system with a given base filename, enter:
.iS
find  /  -name  .profile  -print
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This searches the entire file system and writes the complete pathnames of
all files named \*L.profile\*O.  The \*L/\*O (backslash) tells
\*Lfind\*O to search the root directory and all of its
subdirectories.  This may take a while, so it is best to limit the
search by specifying the directories where you think the files might be.
.LI
To list the files with a specific permission code in the current
directory tree, enter:
.iS
find  .  -perm  0600  -print
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This lists the names of the files that have only
owner-read and owner-write permission.  The \*L.\*O (dot) tells
\*Lfind\*O to search the current directory and its subdirectories.
See the \*Lchmod\*O command for details about permission codes.
.LI
To search several directories for files with certain permission codes, enter:
.iS
find  manual  clients  proposals  -perm  -0600  -print
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This lists the names of the files that have owner-read and
owner-write permission and possibly other permissions.
The directories \*Lmanual\*O, \*Lclients\*O,
and \*Lproposals\*O, and their subdirectories, are searched.  Note
that \*L-perm 0600\*O in the previous example selects only files
with permission codes that match \*L0600\*O exactly.
In this example, \*L-perm -0600\*O selects files with permission
codes that allow at least the accesses indicated
by \*L0600\*O.  This also matches the permission
codes \*L0622\*O and \*L2744\*O.
.LI
To search for regular files with multiple links, enter:
.iS
find  .  -type  f  -links  \(pl1  -print
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This lists the names of the ordinary files (\*L-type f\*O)
that have more than one link (\*L-links \(pl1\*O).  Note that
every directory has at least two links:  the entry in its parent
directory and its own \*L.\*O (dot) entry.
See the \*Lln\*O command for details about multiple file links.
.LI
To find all accessible files whose pathname begins with \*Lfind\*O, enter:
.iS
find find -print
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To remove all files named \*La.out\*O or \*L\&*\&.o\*O that
have not been accessed for a week and that are not mounted using
\*Lnfs\*O, enter:
.iS
find / \e( -name a.out -o -name \(aa*.o\(aa \e) -atime \(pl7 -exec \e
	rm {} \e; -o -fstype nfs -prune
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To find all files modified within the last 24 hours, type
.iS
\*Lfind . -mtime 1 -print
.iE
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding examples from an Environment Note
.LI
To find all files on the root file system, enter:
.iS
find / -mount -print
.iE
.LI
To write all the files on the root file system to tape, enter:
.iS
find / -mount -print -cpio /dev/rmt?h
cpio -iBvt </dev/rmt?h
.iE
.LI
To find all the mount points on the root file system, enter:
.iS
find /! -mount -print
.iE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LE
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Moved EXIT VALUES section from after FILES and renamed it RETURN VALUES
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*L-exec\*O \*Vcommand\*O expression evaluates
TRUE if the \*Vcommand\*O runs and returns a 0 (zero) value as exit status.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/etc/group\*O"
Contains group information.
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O"
Contains user information.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lchmod\*O(1), \*Lcpio\*O(1),
\*Lgrep\*O(1)/\*Legrep\*O(1)/\*Lfgrep\*O(1), \*Lln\*O(1),
\*Lsh\*O(1), \*Ltest\*O(1).
.PP
Functions:  \*Lstat\*O(2)
.PP
Files:  \*Lfs\*O(4),
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding a pointer from an Environment Note
\*Lcdfs\*O(4)
.\" End Digital-specific information
.EQ
delim off
.EN
