.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: finger.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 21:25:18 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" In NAME section, added f to the name line so 'man f' will get this manpage.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\"
.\"build rmifdef
.TH finger 1
.SH NAME
\*Lfinger\*O, \*Lf\*O \- Displays user information
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.sS
\*Lfinger\*O
\*O[\*L\-bfhilmpqsw\*O]
\*O[\*Vuser\*O
\&...]
.sE 
.PP
The \*Lfinger\*O command displays information about the users in the 
\*Lpasswd\*O file.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "finger command"
.iX "displaying" "information about users"
.iX "users" "displaying information about"
.PP 
By default, information for each user on the host is listed.
This information includes the login name, terminal name and write status
(an * (asterisk)) before the terminal name appears (if write permission
is denied), and login time.
.PP 
The \*Lfinger\*O command uses a longer output format when you specify
a user or a list of users.  You can use account name, given name, or
surname (as listed in \*L/etc/passwd\*O) to specify users.  This
multiline format includes the information described previously, as well as
full name, office number, and phone number (if known);
the user's home directory and login shell; idle time;
any plan that the user has placed
in the file \*L\&.plan\*O in the user's home directory; and the project
on which the user is working from the file \*L\&.project\*O in
the home directory.  (Idle time is minutes if it
is a single integer, hours and minutes if a \*L:\*O (colon) is present,
or days and hours if a \*Ld\*O is present.)
.PP 
If a \*Vhost\*O is not specified, the information is for
users on the local host; otherwise, the information is for users at
the specified host.  You can specify a user on a remote host by using the form
\*Vuser\*L@\*Vhost\*O; if you specify
\*L@\*Vhost\*O alone, the standard
format listing is provided on the remote system.
.PP 
The \*Lfinger\*O command displays user information only if
the specified host has a \*Lfingerd\*O server
running or \*Linetd\*O is configured to start \*Lfingerd\*O.
(For more information on setting up this server
for your host, see the \*Lfingerd\*O(8) daemon reference page.)
.PP 
If you want to make information available to other users who run
\*Lfinger\*O on your user ID, you can create the following files in your
home directory:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\&.plan\*O"
A file that contains plans.  The \*L\&.plan\*O file can
contain more than one line.
.LI "\*L\&.project\*O" 
A file that states what project
you are currently working on.  The \*L\&.project\*O file
can contain only one line.
.LE 
.PP
The \*Lf\*O command is a supported alias for the \*Lfinger\*O command.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-b\*O"
Produces a briefer version of long format output.
.LI "\*L\-f\*O" 
Suppresses display of header line (the first
line that defines the displayed fields).
.LI "\*L\-h\*O" 
Suppresses printing of \*L\&.project\*O files in long and brief long formats.
.LI "\*L\-i\*O" 
Produces a quick listing with idle times.
.LI "\*L\-l\*O" 
Forces long output format.
.LI "\*L\-m\*O" 
Assumes \*Vuser\*O specified is an account name, not a given name
or surname.
.LI "\*L\-p\*O" 
Suppresses printing of \*L\&.plan\*O files in long
and brief long formats.
.LI "\*L\-q\*O" 
Produces a quick listing, including
only login name, terminal name, and login time.
.LI "\*L\-s\*O" 
Forces short output format.
.LI "\*L\-w\*O" 
Forces narrow, short format listing.
.LE 
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
.AL 3m 
.LI
To get information about user \*Lfrankel\*O at
\*Lhost1\*O, enter:
.iS
\*C$ \*Lfinger frankel@host1
\*CLogin name:\*L  frankel		\*CIn real life:\*L  Sam Frankel
\*COffice:\*L  3D08  ext5555		\*CHome phone:\*L  555-9982
\*CDirectory:\*L  /u/frankel		\*CShell:\*L  /usr/bin/sh
\*CLast login Thu Jun 28 10:37 on tty56 from venus.abc.org
No plan.
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To get information about user \*Lchen\*O at
\*Lhost1\*O, when \*Lchen\*O has both a \*L\&.plan\*O
and a \*L\&.project\*O file in his home directory, enter:
.iS
\*C$ \*Lfinger chen@host1
\*CLogin name:\*L  chen			\*CIn real life:\*L  A. B. Chen
\*COffice:\*L  3D10  ext5322			\*CHome phone:\*L  210-9876
\*CDirectory:\*L  /u/chen			\*CShell:\*L /usr/bin/sh
\*COn since May 16 11:06 on tty3	1 minute 2 seconds Idle Time
Project:\*L  aquatic entomology
\*CPlan:
Complete Phase 1 research by end of second quarter.
Produce draft report by end of year.
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To get information about all users logged in to the host
\*Lhost1\*O, enter:
.iS
\*C$ \*Lfinger @host1
\*O\c
.iE
.LE 
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/var/adm/utmp\*O"
Contains user and accounting information.
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O" 
Contains user information.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/lastlog\*O" 
Contains last login times.
.LI "\*L$HOME/\&.plan\*O" 
Contains a user's plan.  (Optional file)
.LI "\*L$HOME/\&.project\*O" 
Contains one-line description of a user's project assignment. (Optional file)
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lfingerd\*O(8), \*Lhostname\*O(1), \*Linetd\*O(8), 
\*Lrwho\*O(1), \*Lusers\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
