.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: fmt.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/13 15:23:06 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH fmt 1
.SH NAME
\*Lfmt\*O \- Formats mail messages prior to sending
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lfmt\*O
\*O[\*L-\*Vwidth\*O]
\*Vfile\*O
\&.\&.\&.
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "fmt command"
.iX "formatting" "mail messages"
.iX "mail" "formatting messages"
.iX "messages" "formatting"
.PP 
The \*Lfmt\*O command reads the input \*Vfile\*O or \*Vfile\*Os, or
standard input if no files are specified, and writes to standard output
a version of the input with lines of a length as close as possible to
\*Vwidth\*O bytes.
.PP 
The \*Lfmt\*O command
both joins and splits lines to achieve the desired \*Vwidth\*O,
but words are never joined or split; spaces are always preserved, and lines
are split at spaces only.  In effect, \*Lfmt\*O ignores newline
characters in the input
and wraps words to make lines a close as possible to \*Vwidth\*O bytes,
resulting in individual lines of varying length but a consistent (new)
text width overall.  Because blank lines are always preserved, \*Lfmt\*O
does not merge paragraphs separated by blank lines.
.PP 
If you specify more than one \*Vfile\*O, the files are concatenated as input
to \*Lfmt\*O.  If you do not specify \*L-\*Vwidth\*O, the default line
length is 72 bytes.  Spacing at the beginning of input lines is always
preserved in the output.
.PP 
The \*Lfmt\*O command is generally used to format mail messages
to improve their appearance before they are sent.  It may also be useful,
however, for other simple formatting tasks.  For example, when you are using
\*Lvi\*O, you can use the command \*L:%!fmt -60\*O to reformat your text
so that all lines are approximately 60 bytes long.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
.AL 3m 
.LI
\*Lfile1\*O contains these lines:
.iS
Australia is an island-continent, home to many
very interesting plants and animals.
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
To reformat this text to a narrower width, enter:
.iS
fmt -30 file1
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This results in the following, displayed on your screen:
.oS
Australia is an island-continent,
home to many very interesting
plants and animals.
\*O\c
.oE
.PP
To make \*Lfile1\*O wider, enter:
.iS
fmt -60 file1
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This results in:
.PP
.oS
Australia is an island-continent, home to many very
interesting plants and animals.
\*O\c
.oE
.LI
To format a message you have created with the \*Lmailx\*O editor,
at the left margin enter:
.iS
\&~|fmt
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
After you enter the command, your message is formatted, in
this case to the default line length of 72, and the word \*Ccontinue\*O
is displayed to indicate that you can enter more information or send
your message.
.LE 
.SH NOTES
.PP 
.AL 3m 
.LI
The \*Lfmt\*O command is a fast, simple formatting
program.  Standard text editing
programs are more appropriate than \*Lfmt\*O for complex formatting
operations.
.LI
Do not use the \*Lfmt\*O command if the message contains embedded
messages or preformatted information from other files.  This command
formats the heading information in embedded messages and may change
the format of preformatted information.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lmail\*O(1)/\*Lbinmail\*O(1), \*Lmailx\*O(1)/\*LMail\*O(1),
\*Lvi\*O(1)/\*Lvedit\*O(1)/\*Lview\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
