.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: fold.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/03 16:52:19 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH fold 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lfold\*O - Breaks lines in a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "fold command"
.iX "files" "folding lines"
.iX "files" "breaking lines"
.sS
\*Lfold\*O
\*O[\*L\(hybs\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyw\ \*Vwidth\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O\ \&...]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lfold\*O command breaks lines in the specified files,
or the standard input if no files are specified, to have maximum \*Vwidth\*O.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-b\*O"
Counts \*Vwidth\*O in bytes rather than in column positions.
In this case, the lines are not limited to \*LLINE_MAX\*O bytes.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
If a segment of a line contains a blank character within the first
\*Vwidth\*O column positions (or bytes), this flag breaks the line after the
last such blank character, meeting the width constraints.  If there is
no blank character meeting the requirements, the \*L-s\*O flag does
not affect that output segment of the input line.
.LI "\*L-w\*O \*Vwidth\*O"
Specifies the maximum width to which lines should be folded
in column positions (or bytes if \*L-b\*O is specified).  The default
value is 80.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lfold\*O command is a filter that folds lines from its input
files, breaking the lines to have a maximum of \*Vwidth\*O column
positions (or bytes, if the \*L-b\*O flag is specified).  The
\*Lfold\*O program breaks lines by inserting a newline
character so that each output line is the maximum width possible
that does not exceed the specified number of column positions
(or bytes).  A line cannot be broken in the middle of a character.
.PP
The \*Lfold\*O command is often used to send text files to line
printers that truncate, rather than fold, lines wider than the printer
is able to print (usually 80 or 132 column positions).
.PP
If the \*L<backspace>\*O, \*L<tab>\*O, or \*L<carriage-return>\*O
characters are encountered in the input, and the
\*L-b\*O flag is not specified, these characters are treated specially:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L<backspace>\*O"
The current count of line width is decremented by one, although the
count never becomes negative.  The \*Lfold\*O command does not insert a
newline character immediately before or after any backspace character.
.LI "\*L<tab>\*O"
Each tab character encountered advances the column position pointer
to the position of the next tab stop.  Tab stops are at each
column position \*Vnumber\*O, such that \*Vnumber\*O modulo 8 equals 1.
.LI "\*L<carriage-return>\*O"
The current count of the line width is set to 0 (zero).  The
\*Lfold\*O program does not insert a newline immediately before
or after any carriage-return.
.LE
.PP
Note that \*Lfold\*O may affect any underlining that is present.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The \*Lfold\*O command can be used to prepare files
to be joined side-by-side with
\*Lpaste\*O.  You might want to display these two files, \*Laz\*O and
\*LAZ\*O, side-by-side:
.oS
aaaa bbbb cccc dddd eeee ffff gggg hhhh iiii jjjj kkkk llll mmmm
nnnn oooo pppp qqqq rrrr ssss tttt uuuu vvvv wwww xxxx yyyy zzzz

AAAA BBBB CCCC DDDD EEEE FFFF GGGG HHHH IIII JJJJ KKKK LLLL MMMM
NNNN OOOO PPPP QQQQ RRRR SSSS TTTT UUUU VVVV WWWW XXXX YYYY ZZZZ
\*O\c
.oE
.PP
The command line:
.iS
fold -w 32 az > az2; fold -w 32 AZ > AZ2; paste -d" " az2 AZ2
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
results in this output:
.oS
.if n .in 0
aaaa bbbb cccc dddd eeee ffff gg AAAA BBBB CCCC DDDD EEEE FFFF GG
gg hhhh iiii jjjj kkkk llll mmmm GG HHHH IIII JJJJ KKKK LLLL MMMM
nnnn oooo pppp qqqq rrrr ssss tt NNNN OOOO PPPP QQQQ RRRR SSSS TT
tt uuuu vvvv wwww xxxx yyyy zzzz TT UUUU VVVV WWWW XXXX YYYY ZZZZ
\*O\c
.oE
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
The \*Lfold\*O program returns the following values:
.VL 4m
.LI "0"
All input files were successfully processed.
.LI "1"
A usage error occurred.
.LI "2"
An input file cannot be opened.  The \*Lfold\*O program continues
processing the other input files specified on the command line.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcut\*O(1), \*Lexpand\*O(1), /\*Lunexpand\*O(1), \*Lpaste\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
