.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: forw.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:30:31 $
.\"
.TH forw 1
.SH NAME
forw \- forward messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B forw
[
\*Vmsgs\*O
] [
\*V+folder\*O
] [
\*Voptions\*O
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.\" .SH Arguments
.\" .IP \f2msgs\f1 10
.\" Specifies the number of the message or messages to be forwarded.
.\" If you do not supply a number, the default is
.\" to take the current message.
.\" More than one message can be specified by leaving spaces
.\" between each separate number.
.\" A range of messages can be indicated by using a dash.
.\" If you specify more than one message, they are all placed
.\" in one message to be forwarded.
.\"
.\"
.\" .IP \f2+folders\f1 10
.\" Specifies the folder of the forwarded message.
.\" If this argument is not present, the default is to take the
.\" current folder.
.\" This argument can be used in conjunction with the
.\" .I msgs
.\" argument.
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "forw command"
.iX "forwarding messages"
Use \*Lforw\*O to send one or more messages on to recipients who were
not the original addressees.
All messages to be forwarded are encapsulated,
and a message header is added.
Forwarded messages appear to originate from the forwarder and not the
sender of the original message.
.\"
.\" Info from old Arguments section
.\"
.PP
You can specify the message which you want
to forward by giving a
\*Vmsg\*O
argument.
You can supply one or more message numbers,
or a range of messages.
If you do not supply a message number, \*Lforw\*O takes the current message.
You can also specify a message in another folder
by giving the
\*V+folder\*O
argument.
This argument can be used in conjunction with the \f2msg\f1
argument.
.\"
.\" ***End of Arguments info
.\"
.PP
An editor is invoked so that you can edit the forwarded message,
or add text before or after the encapsulated message.
When you exit from the editor, you receive a prompt asking
what you want to do with the completed draft.
This prompt usually takes the form \*LWhat now?\*O
See \*Lwhatnow\*O(1) for more information on the options available.
.PP
If you forward a number of messages,
each forwarded message is encapsulated separately.
When received, the message is suitable for expanding with \*Lburst\*O(1).
.PP
By default, the mail system uses a standard message header
for forwarded messages.
This is taken from the system file \*L/usr/lib/mh/forwcomps\*O. You
can supply your own header by creating a file called \*Lforwcomps\*O in
your Mail directory.
If this file exists, \*Lforw\*O automatically uses the
header in it when creating draft messages.
.PP
If you do not have a draft folder set up, \*Lforw\*O creates your
new draft in a file called \*Ldraft\*O in your Mail directory,
usually \*L$HOME/Mail\*O. This file
must be empty before you can create a new draft,
which means that you can only store one draft at a time.
If it is not empty, the mail system will ask you
what you want to do with the existing contents.
The options are:
.TP 10
\*Lquit\*O
Aborts \*Lforw\*O, leaving the draft intact.
.TP 10
\*Lreplace\*O
Replaces the existing draft with the appropriate message form.
.\" .TP 10
.\" \*Luse\*O
.\"
.TP 10
\*Llist\*O
Displays the draft message.
.TP 10
\*Lrefile\*O
Refiles the existing draft message in the specified folder,
and provides a new message form for you to complete.
.PP
If you want to be able to have more than one draft message at a time,
you can set up a draft folder in your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O. This
allows you to keep as many unsent drafts as space allows,
and still create new messages as you wish.
To do this, make sure that the following line is in your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O:
.oS
Draft-folder: +drafts
.oE
For more information on how to do this, see \*Lmh_profile\*O(4).
.PP
If you set up a draft folder,
all draft messages are created in that folder.
If you decide not to send the draft, by typing \*Lquit\*O at
the \*LWhat now?\*O prompt,
the message is stored in the draft folder.
You can then re-edit the message, or send it at a later date,
by using the
.B \-use
option to the \*Lcomp\*O command.
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.PP
You can specify whether you wish to forward a
message to X.400 or non-X.400 users by entering a
value in the \*LX-mts:\*O field of the header.
There are two valid entries: \*Lx400\*O for messages to
be forwarded to X.400 users; \*Lsmtp\*O for
messages to be forwarded to non-X.400 users.
You can use upper- or lower-case letters, or a mixture
of the two.
You cannot forward a single message to
both X.400 and non-X.400 users simultaneously;
you must choose one or the other.
If you do not make an entry in the \*LX-mts:\*O field,
or if you make an invalid entry, \*Lforw\*O assumes that the message
is sent over non-X.400 transport.
If you do enter a valid value in the \*LX-mts:\*O field, this will override
any option you specify later by using the
.B \-mts
\*Vmtsname\*O
option with \*Lsend\*O or \*Lwhom\*O. If you wish to override the
entry in the \*LX-mts:\*O field,
you must edit the draft of your message to remove or change it.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.PP
If you use \*Lprompter\*O as your editor, you can specify the
.B \-prepend
option to \*Lprompter\*O in the \*L\&.mh_profile\*O file.
If you do this, any text you add is entered before
the forwarded messages.
See \*Lprompter\*O(1) for details of the other \*Lprompter\*O options.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP \-annotate 10
.PD 0
.IP \-noannotate 10
.PD
Annotates the message you are forwarding.
The following lines are added to the message that you
are forwarding:
.oS
Forwarded: date
Forwarded: address(es)
.oE
The first line records the time at which the message
was forwarded; the second records the addresses of the
recipients of the forwarded message.
.IP
The \*Lforw\*O command only annotates messages when they are successfully sent.
If you do not send the message immediately and file
the unsent draft, it will not be annotated.
It is also possible to confuse \*Lforw\*O by using \*Lpush\*O to
send the message, and renumbering it before it is sent,
for example by using \*Lfolder \-pack\*O to reorder the folder.
.\"
.\"
.ig
.IP \-digest\ \f2list\f1
***NO DOCUMENTATION ON THIS***
..
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-draftfolder \f2foldername\f1" 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nodraftfolder 10
.PD
Specifies the folder in which the draft message is created.
If you do not send the draft,
the mail system will store it in this folder.
.IP
This option is usually set up in your
\*L\&.mh_profile\*O. See \*Lmh_profile\*O(4) for more information.
If you have this option set up, you can
override it by using the
.B \-nodraftfolder
option.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-draftmessage \f2filename\f1" 10
Specifies the file in which the draft message is created.
If no absolute pathname is given, the file is assumed to be in
your Mail directory, usually \*L$HOME/Mail\*O. If you do not send
the message, it is stored in the named file
until you delete it, or send it at a later date.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-editor \f2editorname\f1" 10
Specify the editor that you want to use to edit your forwarded
message.
You can supply the name of any approved editor.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-filter \f2filterfile\f1" 10
Reformats (filters) the forwarded messages prior to inclusion in
the draft message.
If you do not specify \f3\-filter\f1,
the forwarded messages are included in the draft exactly as
they appear.
This option allows you to re-format them according to instructions
in a named filter file.
This must be an mhl file; see \*Lmh-format\*O(4) for more information.
.IP
The
.B \-format
option also re-formats messages before
encapsulating them in the draft.
However,
.B \-format
always re-formats according to the instructions in the default
\*Lmhl.forward\*O file.
The
.B \-filter
option allows you to use your own, named filter file to
format the messages.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-form \f2formfile\f1" 10
Specifies the message header to be used in the draft message.
If this option is present, \*Lforw\*O takes the header of the draft message
from the named file.
If this option is not present, the header is taken from
the \*Lforwcomps\*O file in your Mail directory, or failing that,
from the mail system default header.
However, the
.B \-form
option overrides both of these.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-format 10
.PD 0
.IP \-noformat 10
.PD
Reformats the messages to be forwarded before enclosing them
in the draft message.
If this option is not supplied, the forwarded messages
are included in the draft exactly as they appear.
With the
.B \-format
option, the forwarded message is re-formatted according to the
instructions in the \*Lmhl.forward\*O file in your Mail directory.
If this file does not exist, the message is formatted according to
the system file \*L/usr/lib/mh/mhl.forward\*O.
.\"
.\"
.\" THIS FILE COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.oS
width=80,overflowtext=,overflowoffset=10
leftadjust,compress,compwidth=9
Date:formatfield="%<(nodate{text})%|%(tws{text})%>"
From:
To:
cc:
Subject:
:
body:nocomponent,overflowoffset=0,noleftadjust,nocomp
ress
.oE
..
.\" END OF COMMENTING OUT
.\"
.\"
The \*Lmhl.forward\*O file is an mhl file;
see \*Lmh-format\*O(4) for more information.
.IP
You can also use the
.B \-filter
\*Vfilterfile\*O
option to re-format messages.
The difference is that
.B \-format
always takes its instructions from the \*Lmhl.forward\*O file.
With \f3\-filter\f1,
you can specify the name of the filter file you want to use.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-help
Prints a list of the legal options to this command.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-inplace
.PD 0
.IP \-noinplace
.PD
Causes annotation to be done in place, to preserve
links to the annotated message.
This option only works with the
.B \-annotate
option.
.\"
.\"
.ig
.IP \-issue\ \f2number\f1
***NO DOCUMENTATION ON THIS***
..
.\"
.\"
.IP \-noedit
Suppresses editing of the draft message altogether.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.IP "\-template [ \f2editorname\f3 ]" 10
Helps you to construct valid X.400 addresses in message headers.
For each appropriate field, the \*Ltemplate\*O program first asks whether
you want to create
an address in that field;
if you do, it will prompt you for the individual
attributes of an X.400 address.
When you have completed all the addresses for your message,
exit from the
.B \-template
utility, and the addresses are entered in the correct fields of
your draft.
You can then continue to edit the message in the usual way.
You can specify your own choice of editor to fill in
the template by using the
.B \-template
\*Veditorname\*O
option.
This can be different from the editor you use for the
body of the mail message.
The default editor for
.B \-template
is \*Lprompter\*O. If you regularly use the same editor for the template
you can specify it in the
\*LTemplate\-Editor:\*O
line of your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O.  See \*Ltemplate\*O(1) for more information.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.\"
.ig
.IP "\-volume \f2number\f1" 10
***NO DOCUMENTATION ON THIS***
..
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-whatnowproc \f2program\f1" 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nowhatnowproc
.PD
Specifies an alternative \*Lwhatnow\*O program.
Normally, \*Lforw\*O invokes the default \*Lwhatnow\*O program.
See \*Lwhatnow\*O(1) for a discussion of available options.
You can specify your own alternative
to the default program using the
.B \-whatnowproc
\*Vprogram\*O
option.
If you do specify your own program, you should not call it \*Lwhatnow\*O.
.IP
You can suppress the \*Lwhatnow\*O program entirely by using the
.B \-nowhatnowproc
option.
However, as the program normally starts the initial edit, the
.B \-nowhatnowproc
option will prevent you from editing the message.
.\"
.\"
.\" Specifies the
.\" \*Lwhatnow\*O
.\" program that is used.
.\" When you exit from the editor,
.\" \*Lforw\*O
.\" invokes the
.\" \*Lwhatnow\*O
.\" program.
.\" See
.\" \*Lwhatnow 1\*O
.\" for details of the available options.
.\" The invocation of this program can be inhibited by using the
.\" .B \-nowhatnowproc
.\" option.
.\" .IP
.\" If the
.\" \*Lwhatnowproc\*O
.\" is
.\" \*Lwhatnow\*O,
.\" then
.\" \*Lforw\*O
.\" uses its own built-in
.\" \*Lwhatnow\*O;
.\" it does not actually run the
.\" \*Lwhatnow\*O
.\" program.
.\" Hence, if you define your own
.\" \*Lwhatnowproc\*O,
.\" do not
.\" call it
.\" \*Lwhatnow\*O
.\" since
.\" \*Lforw\*O
.\" will not run it.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.PP
The following are defaults for this command:
.IP
\f2+folder\f1
defaults to the current folder
.br
\f2msgs\f1
defaults to the current message
.br
.B \-noannotate
.br
.B \-nodraftfolder
.br
.B \-noformat
.br
.B \-noinplace
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:\f1+To determine your Mail directory
Draft-Folder:\f1+To find the default draft folder
Editor:\f1+To override the default editor
.\"
.\" Template-Editor:\f1+To override the default editor for the template
.\"
Msg-Protect:\f1+To set mode when creating a new message (draft)
fileproc:\f1+Program to refile the message
mhlproc:+\f1Program to filter messages being forwarded
whatnowproc:+\f1Program to ask the \*(lqWhat now?\*(rq questions
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L/usr/lib/mh/forwcomps\*O
The default system template for forwarded messages.
.TP
\*L<mh\-dir>/forwcomps\*O
The user-supplied alternative to the default system template.
.\"
.\" .TP
.\" \*L/usr/lib/mh/digestcomps\*O
.\" The default message template used with \f3\-digest\f1.
.\"
.TP
\*L<mh\-dir>/digestcomps\*O
The user-supplied alternative to the system message template
used with \f3\-digest\f1.
.TP
\*L/usr/lib/mh/mhl.forward\*O
The default message filter.
.TP
\*L<mh\-dir>/mhl.forward\*O
The user-supplied alternative to the default system message filter.
.TP
\*L$HOME/\&.mh_profile
The user profile.
.TP
\*L<mh\-dir>/draft\*O
The draft file.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lcomp\*O(1), \*Ldist\*O(1), \*Lrefile\*O(1), \*Lrepl\*O(1),
\*Lsend\*O(1),
.\" \*Ltemplate\*O(1),
\*Lwhatnow\*O(1)
.br
\f2Proposed Standard for Message Encapsulation\f1 (RFC 934)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
