.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: from.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 21:26:33 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.TH from 1
.SH NAME
\*Lfrom\*O \- Shows whom mail messages are from
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lfrom\*O
\*O[\*L\-s\*O
\*Vsender\*O]
\*O[\*Vuser\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lfrom\*O command
prints out the mail header lines in your mailbox file.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "from command"
.iX "mail" "determining sender"
.iX "displaying" "sender of mail"
.iX "messages" "determining sender"
.PP
If \*Vuser\*O is specified, then \*Vuser\*O's
mailbox is examined instead of your own.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-s \*Vsender\*O"
Prints headers for mail sent by \*Vsender\*O.
.\" Begin Digital-specific correction
.LI "\*L\-d \*Vdirectory\*O"
Specifies a mail spool directory.
.IP
Use this flag if you want to examine a mailbox in a directory other than
.PN /usr/spool/mail ,
which is the system default.
.\" End Digital-specific correction
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL 3m
.LI
To display the message headings in your mailbox, enter:
.IP
.iS
from
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The names of the senders and the message dates are displayed.
.LI
To display the message headings for mail sent by a specific user, enter:
.IP
.iS
from \-s dale
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
Displays only the message headings of the messages sent from user \*Ldale\*O.
.LI
To display the message headings in a specific user's mailbox, enter:
.IP
.iS
from dawn
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The message headings from user \*Ldawn\*O's mailbox are displayed, provided
you have read permission for \*Ldawn\*O's mailbox.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/var/spool/mail/*\*O"
User mailbox files.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lbiff\*O(1), \*Lmail\*O(1),
\*Lmailx\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
