.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ftoc.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/15 17:44:47 $
.\"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.  All Rights |
.\" | Reserved.                                         |
.\" -----------------------------------------------------
.\"  ftoc.1 3.1
.TH ftoc 1
.SH NAME
.PP
ftoc \- interface between prof and cord
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Lftoc\*O \*Vfile1 ...\*O
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ftoc command"
The \*Lftoc\*O interface reads one or more feedback files produced by the
\*L\-feedback\*O
option of the profiler \*Lprof\*O(1) and writes onto stdout
a reorder-file for use with the cache-rearranging program \*Lcord\*O(1). It
interprets each feedback file as representing one phase of a program's
execution. In other words, if a program behaves in two distinct ways
depending on its input, you could create two different feedback files by
executing the program twice with different input data, and both
\*Lftoc\*O and \*Lcord\*O
will understand that the information from the first file is distinct from
that of the second file.
.PP
As an example, to improve the instruction-cache performance of a program
called
\*Lhello\*O, you could generate a new
\*Lhello.cord\*O
program by saying:
.oS
cc -non_shared -o hello hello.c -Wl,-r,-d,-z
pixie -o hello.pixie hello
hello.pixie
prof -pixie -feedback hello.feedback hello
ftoc hello.feedback > hello.reorder
cord -o hello.cord hello hello.reorder
.oE
.PP
The reorderfile consists of a list of lines of the form:
.oS
sourcefile procname.procname... n
.oE
where "procname.procname..." represents an outer-to-inner list of nested
procedures, and
\*Vn\*O
is 10 times the percentage of the procedure's "density" with respect to the
total of the densities of all procedures. ("Density" is the ratio of
a procedure's total cycles to its total static instructions.) A line
consisting of "$phase" separates information from different feedback files.
.PP
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lcord\*O(1), \*Lpixie\*O(1), \*Lprof\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
