.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ftp.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/10 18:47:48 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
.TH ftp 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lftp\*O \- Transfers files between a local and a remote host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lftp\*O
\*O[\*L-dgintv\*O]
\*O[\*Vhost\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lftp\*O command is
the interface to the File Transfer Protocol (FTP).  This
.gL "File Transfer Protocol"
.gL "FTP"
command uses FTP to transfer files between the local host and a
remote host or between two remote hosts.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
The following flags can be entered on the shell command line.  (The
the \*Lftp\*O command equivalents can also be entered at the \*Cftp>\*O
prompt.)
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-d\*O"
Enables debugging by turning on the logging feature.  See
the \*Ldebug\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*L-g\*O"
Disables the expansion of metacharacters in filenames. Interpreting
metacharacters may be referred to as expanding (sometimes called
.gL "metacharacter"
.gL "glob"
\*Vglobbing\*O) a filename.  See the \*Lglob\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*L-i\*O"
Disables interactive prompting during multiple file transfers.  See
the \*Lprompt\*O, \*Lmget\*O, \*Lmput\*O, and
\*Lmdelete\*O subcommands for descriptions of prompting during
multiple file transfers.
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Prevents an automatic login on the initial connection.  Otherwise,
\*Lftp\*O searches for a \*L$HOME/\&.netrc\*O entry that describes the login and
initialization process for the remote host.  See the
\*Luser\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*L-t\*O"
Toggles packet tracing (see \*Ltrace\*O subcommand).
.LI "\*L-v\*O"
Displays all the responses from the remote server and provides data
transfer statistics.  This is the default display mode when the output of the
\*Lftp\*O command is to a device, such as the console or a
display.  However, if output is redirected, such as through
a pipe or to a file, or if the \*Lftp\*O command is started
by a daemon, such as the \*Lcron\*O daemon, verbose mode is
not in effect unless the \*L-v\*O flag or the \*Lverbose\*O
subcommand is used.  See the \*Lverbose\*O subcommand.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ftp command"
.iX "File Transfer Protocol"
.iX "files" "transferring"
.iX "transferring files"
.iX "protocols" "FTP"
.iX "FTP"
The FTP protocol is designed to allow transferring data between
hosts that use dissimilar file systems.  Therefore, although the protocol
provides a lot of flexibility for transferring data, it does not attempt
to preserve file attributes that are specific to a particular file system
(for example, the protection mode or modification times of a file).
Additionally, the FTP protocol
makes few assumptions about the overall structure of a file system and
does not provide or allow such things as recursively copying
subdirectories.
.PP
Note that if you are transferring files between OSF/1 systems (or other
systems compatible with the UNIX operating system) and need to preserve
file attributes or need to recursively copy subdirectories, you can use
the \*Lrcp\*O command.
.PP
The \*Lftp\*O command provides subcommands for tasks such as
listing remote directories, changing the current local and
remote directory, transferring multiple files in a single
request, creating and removing directories, and escaping to
the local shell to perform shell commands.  The \*Lftp\*O
command also provides for security by sending passwords to
the remote host and permits automatic login, file transfer, and logoff.
.PP
If you execute \*Lftp\*O and do not specify a hostname, \*Lftp\*O
immediately displays the \*Cftp>\*O prompt and waits for an
\*Lftp\*O subcommand.  To connect to a remote host, you then execute the
\*Lopen\*O subcommand.  When the \*Lftp\*O command connects to
the remote host, \*Lftp\*O then prompts for the username and
password before displaying the \*Cftp>\*O prompt again.
\*Lftp\*O fails if no password is defined at the remote host
for the specified username.
.PP
If you do specify the name of a remote host, \*Lftp\*O immediately tries
to establish a connection to the specified host.  If \*Lftp\*O
connects successfully, \*Lftp\*O searches for
a local \*L$HOME/\&.netrc\*O file in your
current directory or home directory.  If the file exists, \*Lftp\*O searches
the file for an entry that initiates the login process and command
macro definitions for the remote host.  If the \*L$HOME/\&.netrc\*O file or
autologin entry does not exist,
.gL "autologin"
\*Lftp\*O prompts you for a username and password.  This occurs whether or
not the hostname is entered on the command line.
.PP
If \*Lftp\*O
finds a \*L$HOME/\&.netrc\*O autologin entry for the specified host,
\*Lftp\*O attempts to use the information in that entry to automatically
log in to the remote host.  The \*Lftp\*O command also loads any command
macros defined in the entry.  In some cases (for example, when the
required password is not listed in an autologin entry), \*Lftp\*O
prompts for the password before displaying the \*Cftp>\*O
prompt.  Once \*Lftp\*O completes the autologin process, \*Lftp\*O executes
the \*Linit\*O macro if the macro is defined in the autologin
entry.  If the \*Linit\*O macro does not exist or does not contain
a \*Lquit\*O or \*Lbye\*O command, \*Lftp\*O then displays the
\*Cftp>\*O prompt and waits for a subcommand.
.PP
The remote username that you specify either at the
prompt or in a \*L$HOME/\&.netrc\*O file must
exist and have a password defined at the remote host
or \*Lftp\*O fails.
.\"Removed Digital only
.\"Begin Digital-specific information
In addition, the remote user's shell must be listed
in the \*L/etc/shells\*O file.
.\"End Digital-specific information
.PP
.\"Removed Digital only
.\"Begin Digital-specific information
Users are authenticated as described in
\*Lftpd\*O(8).
.\"End Digital-specific information
.PP
The \*Lftp\*O command interpreter, which handles all commands entered at
the \*Cftp>\*O prompt, provides facilities that are not
available with most file transfer programs, such as:  the handling
of filename arguments to \*Lftp\*O commands, the ability to
collect a group of commands into a single command macro, and the ability
to load macros from
a \*L$HOME/\&.netrc\*O file.  These facilities are designed to
allow simplifying repeated tasks and to allow using \*Lftp\*O in unattended
mode.
.PP
The command interpreter handles filename arguments according to the
following rules:
.ML
.LI
If a \*L-\*O (dash) is specified for the argument, standard input is
used for read operations and standard output is used for write
operations.
.LI
If the first character of the filename is \*L|\*O (vertical bar),
the remainder of the argument is interpreted as a shell command.  \*Lftp\*O
then forks a shell, using \*Lpopen()\*O with the argument supplied, and
reads (writes) from \*Lstdout\*O (\*Lstdin\*O).
.sp
If the shell command
includes spaces, the argument must be quoted; for example, \*L| ls -lt\*O.
A particularly useful example of this mechanism is \*Ldir |more\*O.
.LI
Failing the above checks, if globbing is enabled, local filenames are
expanded according to the rules used in \*Lcsh\*O; c.f., the \*Lglob\*O
command.  If the \*Lftp\*O command expects a single local file (for
example, \*Lput\*O), only the first filename generated by the
globbing operation is used.
.LI
For \*Lget\*O and \*Lmget\*O
subcommands with unspecified local filenames, the local filename is
the same as the
remote filename, which may be altered by a \*Lcase\*O, \*Lntrans\*O,
or \*Lnmap\*O setting.  The resulting filename can then be altered if
\*Lrunique\*O is on.
.LI
For \*Lmput\*O commands and \*Lput\*O commands with unspecified remote
filenames, the remote filename is the same as the local filename, which can be
altered by a \*Lntrans\*O or \*Lnmap\*O setting.  The resulting filename
can then be altered by the remote server if \*Lsunique\*O is on.
.LE
.PP
Note that
the \*Lftp\*O command interpreter does not support pipes.
.PP
To end an \*Lftp\*O session when you are running interactively, use the
\*Lbye\*O or \*Lquit\*O
subcommand or the End-of-File key sequence at
the \*Cftp>\*O prompt.  To end a file transfer before
it has been completed, use the Interrupt key sequence.  The
default Interrupt key sequence is \*L<Ctrl-c>\*O.
.PP
The \*Lstty\*O command can be used to redefine this key sequence.
Sending transfers (those from the local host to the
remote host) are normally halted immediately.  Receiving transfers are halted by
sending an \*LFTP ABOR\*O instruction to the remote FTP
server and discarding all incoming file transfer packets until the
remote server stops sending them.
.PP
If the remote server does not support
the \*LABOR\*O instruction, the \*Cftp>\*O prompt will not
appear until the remote server has sent all of the requested file.
Additionally, if the remote server does something unexpected, the local
\*Lftp\*O process may need to be ended manually.
.\"Removed Digital specific reference
.\" Begin Digital specific information
.PP
The \*Lftp\*O command uses the default Type-of-Service values
recommended by RFC1060, which are as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lftp-control\*O"
Low delay
.LI "\*Lftp-data\*O"
High throughput
.LE
.PP
You can configure these values by specifying them in the
\*L/etc/iptos\*O file. For more information, see \*Liptos\*O(4).
.\" End Digital specific information.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.PP
The following \*Lftp\*O subcommands can be entered at the
\*Cftp>\*O prompt.  If an argument for a subcommand includes
spaces, enclose the argument within "" (double quotes).
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L!\*O[\*Vcommand\*O [\*Vargument\*O \&.\&.\&.]]"
Invokes an interactive shell on the local host.  An optional
command, with one or more optional arguments, can be specified.
.LI "\*L$\*O \*Vmacro\*O [\*Vargument\*O \&.\&.\&.]"
Executes the specified macro, previously defined with the
\*Lmacdef\*O subcommand.  Arguments are not expanded.  See the
\*Lmacdef\*O subcommand for further information.
.LI "\*L?\*O [\*Vsubcommand\*O]"
Displays a help message describing the subcommand.  If you do not specify
\*Vsubcommand\*O, \*Lftp\*O displays a list of known subcommands.
.LI "\*Laccount\*O [\*Vpassword\*O]"
Sends a supplemental password that a remote host may require
before granting access to its resources.  If the password is not
supplied with the command, you are prompted for the password.
The password does not appear on the screen.
.LI "\*Lappend\*O \*Vlocal_file\*O [\*Vremote_file\*O]"
Appends a local file to a file on the remote host.  If the remote
filename is not specified, the local filename is used, altered
by any setting made with the \*Lntrans\*O or
\*Lnmap\*O subcommand.  The \*Lappend\*O subcommand uses the current
values for \*Lform\*O, \*Lmode\*O,  \*Lstruct\*O,
and \*Ltype\*O while appending the file.  For more information
on these subcommands, see their individual descriptions.
.LI "\*Lascii\*O"
Sets the file transfer type to network ASCII.
.\"Removed Digital only
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
This \*Lft\*O command is the
default when \*Lftp\*O cannot determine that the remote system is a UNIX system.
.\" End Digital-specific information
File transfer may
be more efficient with binary-image transfer.
.LI "\*Lbell\*O"
Sounds a bell after the completion of each file transfer.
.LI "\*Lbinary\*O"
Sets the file transfer type to binary image,
by default,
.\"Removed Digital only
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
if \*Lftp\*O can determine that
the remote system is a UNIX system.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.\" Why have a BINARY subcommand?--vrm
This can be more efficient than an ASCII transfer.
.LI "\*Lbye\*O"
Ends the File Transfer session and exits \*Lftp\*O.  Same as
\*Lquit\*O.
.LI "\*Lcase\*O"
Sets a toggle for the case of filenames.  When \*Lcase\*O
is on, remote filenames that appear in all capital letters are changed
from uppercase to lowercase when written in the local directory.
The default is off (uppercase remote filenames are written in
uppercase in the local directory).
.LI "\*Lcd\*O \*Vremote_directory\*O"
Changes the remote working directory to the specified directory.
.LI "\*Lcdup\*O"
Changes the working directory on the remote host to the parent
of the current directory.
.LI "\*Lclose\*O"
Ends the File Transfer session, but does not exit \*Lftp\*O.  Defined
macros are erased.  Same as \*Ldisconnect\*O.
.LI "\*Lcr\*O"
Strips the carriage-return character from a carriage-return/linefeed
sequence when receiving records during ASCII-type file transfers.
(\*Lftp\*O terminates each ASCII-type record with a
carriage-return/linefeed sequence during file transfers.)  This
conforms with the OSF/1 and UNIX system convention for
terminating records with a single linefeed.  Records
on remote hosts that have different record termination
conventions may have single linefeeds imbedded in records.  To
distinguish these imbedded linefeeds from record delimiters,
set \*Lcr\*O to \*Loff\*O.
\*Lcr\*O toggles between \*Lon\*O and \*Loff\*O.
.LI "\*Ldelete\*O \*Vremote_file\*O"
Deletes the specified remote file.
.LI "\*Ldebug\*O [\*Lon\*O | \*Loff\*O]"
Prints each command sent to the remote host preceded by the string
\*L-->\*O when \*Ldebug on\*O is specified.
.LI "\*Ldir\*O [\*Vremote_directory\*O][\*Vlocal_file\*O]"
Writes a listing of the contents of \*Vremote_directory\*O to
the file \*Vlocal_file\*O.  If \*Vremote_directory\*O is not
specified, \*Ldir\*O lists the contents of the current remote
directory.  If \*Vlocal_file\*O is not specified or is
a \*L-\*O (dash), \*Ldir\*O displays the listing on the local terminal.
.LI "\*Ldisconnect\*O"
See \*Lclose\*O.
.LI "\*Lform\*O \*Vformat\*O"
Specifies the form of the file transfer.
.\"Begin Digital correction. 
.\" The following sentence is incorrect.
.\"The only form available is \*Lfile\*O.
The only format available is \*Lnon-print\*O.
.\"End Digital correction
.LI "\*Lget\*O \*Vremote_file\*O [\*Vlocal_file\*O]"
Copies the remote file to the local host.  If \*Vlocal_file\*O
is not specified, the remote filename is used locally and is altered by
any settings made by the \*Lcase\*O, \*Lntrans\*O, and
\*Lnmap\*O subcommands.  The \*Lftp\*O command uses the current settings for
\*Ltype\*O, \*Lform\*O, \*Lmode\*O, and \*Lstruct\*O
while transferring the file.
For additional information, refer to the description of each
of these subcommands.
.LI "\*Lglob\*O"
Toggles filename expansion (globbing) for \*Lmdelete\*O,
.gL "filename expansion"
\*Lmget\*O, and \*Lmput\*O.  If globbing is off, filename
arguments for these subcommands are not expanded.
When globbing is enabled and a pattern-matching character is
used in a subcommand that expects a single filename, results
may be different than expected.  For example, the
\*Lappend\*O and \*Lput\*O subcommands perform filename
expansion and then use only the first filename generated.
Other \*Lftp\*O subcommands, such as \*Lcd\*O, \*Ldelete\*O,
\*Lget\*O, \*Lmkdir\*O, \*Lrename\*O, and \*Lrmdir\*O, do
not perform filename expansion and take the pattern-matching
characters literally.
.sp
Globbing for the \*Lmput\*O subcommand is done locally
in the same way as for the
\*Lcsh\*O command.  For \*Lmdelete\*O and \*Lmget\*O,
each filename is expanded separately at the remote machine and the
lists are not
merged.  The expansion of a directory name may be different than the
expansion of a filename, depending on the remote host and the \*Lftp\*O
.gL "remote host"
server.
.sp
To preview the expansion of a directory name, use the \*Lmls\*O subcommand:
.iS
mls \*Vremote_file\*L -
\*O\c
.iE
.sp
To transfer an entire directory subtree of files, transfer a
\*Ltar\*O archive of the subtree in binary form, rather than using
\*Lmget\*O or \*Lmput\*O.
.LI "\*Lhash\*O"
Toggles # (hash sign) printing.  When \*Lhash\*O is
on, \*Lftp\*O displays one hash sign for each data block (1024 bytes)
transferred.
.LI "\*Lhelp\*O [\*Vsubcommand\*O]"
Displays help information. Refer to the \*L?\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*Llcd\*O [\*Vdirectory\*O]"
Changes the working directory on the local host.  If you do not
.gL "local host"
specify a directory, \*Lftp\*O uses your home directory.
.LI "\*Lls\*O [\*Vremote_directory\*O] [\*Vlocal_file\*O]"
Writes an abbreviated file listing of a remote directory to a local
file.  If \*Vremote_directory\*O is not specified, \*Lftp\*O lists the
current remote directory.  If \*Vlocal_file\*O is not specified or
is a \*L-\*O (dash), \*Lftp\*O displays the listing on the local terminal.
.LI "\*Lmacdef\*O \*Vmacro\*O"
Defines a subcommand macro.  Subsequent lines up to a null line (two
consecutive linefeeds) are saved as the text of the macro.  Up to 16
macros containing at most 4096 bytes for all macros can be defined.
Macros remain defined until redefined or a \*Lclose\*O is executed.
.sp
The special characters
$ (dollar sign) and \e (backslash) have special uses
in \*Lftp\*O macros.  A \*L$\*O followed by one or more numbers is
replaced by the corresponding macro parameter on the invocation line
(refer to the \*L$\*O subcommand).  A \*L$\*O followed by an
\*Li\*O indicates that the macro is to loop, with
\*L$i\*O being replaced by consecutive parameters on each pass.
The first macro parameter is used on the first pass, the second
parameter is used on the second pass, and so on.  A \*L\e\*O
prevents special treatment of the next character.  Use the
\*L\e\*O to turn off the special meanings of \*L$\*O and \*L\e\*O.
.LI "\*Lmdelete\*O \*Vremote_files\*O"
Expands \*Vremote_files\*O and deletes the indicated remote files.
.LI "\*Lmdir\*O [\*Vremote_directory\*O \&.\&.\&. \*Vlocal_file\*O]"
Expands \*Vremote_directory\*O at the remote host and
writes a listing of the contents of the \*Vremote_directory\*O
to the \*Vlocal_file\*O.  If the \*Vremote_directory\*O
argument contains a pattern-matching character, \*Lmdir\*O
prompts for a \*Vlocal_file\*O if none is specified.  If
the \*Vremote_directory\*O argument is a list of remote
directories, separated by spaces, the last argument in the list must
be either a local filename or a \*L-\*O (dash).
If \*Vlocal_file\*O is -, \*Lmdir\*O displays the
listing on the local terminal.  If interactive prompting is on
(refer to the \*Lprompt\*O subcommand), \*Lftp\*O prompts you
to verify that the last argument is a local file and not a remote
directory.
.LI "\*Lmget\*O \*Vremote_file\*O \&.\&.\&."
Expands \*Vremote_files\*O at the remote host and copies the
indicated remote files to the current directory on the local host.
Refer to the \*Lglob\*O subcommand for more information on filename expansion.  The remote filenames are used locally and are altered
by any settings made by the \*Lcase\*O, \*Lntrans\*O, and
\*Lnmap\*O subcommands.  The \*Lftp\*O command uses the current settings for
\*Ltype\*O, \*Lform\*O, \*Lmode\*O, and
\*Lstructure\*O while transferring the files.  Refer to the
description of each of these subcommands for additional information.
.LI "\*Lmkdir\*O [\*Vremote_directory\*O]"
Creates the directory \*Vremote_directory\*O on the remote
host.
.LI "\*Lmls\*O [\*Vremote_directory\*O \&.\&.\&. \*Vlocal_file\*O]"
Expands \*Vremote_directory\*O at the remote host and
writes an abbreviated file listing of the indicated remote directories
to a local file.  If the \*Vremote_directory\*O
argument contains a pattern-matching character, \*Lmls\*O
prompts for a \*Vlocal_file\*O if none is specified.  If
the \*Vremote_directory\*O argument is a list of remote
directories, separated by spaces, the last argument in the list must
be either a local filename or a \*L-\*O (dash).
If \*Vlocal_file\*O is -, \*Lmls\*O displays the
listing on the local terminal.  If interactive prompting is on
(refer to the \*Lprompt\*O subcommand), \*Lftp\*O prompts you
to verify that the last argument is a local file and not a remote
directory.
.LI "\*Lmode\*O [\*Vmode\*O]"
Sets file transfer mode.  The only mode available is \*Lstream\*O.
.LI "\*Lmodtime\*O [\*Vremote_file\*O]"
Shows the last modification time of file on the remote machine.
.LI "\*Lmput\*O [\*Vlocal_file\*O \&.\&.\&.]"
Expands \*Vlocal_file\*O at the local host and copies the
indicated local files to the remote host.  Refer to the \*Lglob\*O
subcommand for more information on filename expansion.  The local filenames are used at the remote host and are altered by any settings made
by the \*Lntrans\*O and \*Lnmap\*O subcommands.  The \*Lftp\*O command uses
the current settings for \*Ltype\*O, \*Lform\*O,
\*Lmode\*O, and \*Lstructure\*O while transferring the files.
Refer to the description of each subcommand for additional information.
.LI "\*Lnlist\*O [\*Vremote_directory\*O] [\*Vlocal_file\*O]"
Prints a list of the files of a directory on the remote machine.
If \*Vremote_directory\*O is left unspecified, the current working
directory is used.  If interactive prompting is on, \*Lftp\*O prompts
the user to verify that the last argument is indeed the target local file
for receiving \*Lnlist\*O output.  If no local file is specified,
the output is sent to the terminal.
.LI "\*Lnmap\*O [\*Vinpattern outpattern\*O]"
Sets or unsets the filename mapping mechanism.  If no arguments
are specified, filename mapping is turned off.  If arguments are
specified, source filenames are mapped for \*Lmget\*O and
\*Lmput\*O operations and for \*Lget\*O and \*Lput\*O
operations when the destination filename is not specified.  This
subcommand is useful when the local and remote hosts use different
filenaming conventions or practices.  Mapping follows the pattern set
by \*Vinpattern\*O and \*Voutpattern\*O.
.sp
The \*Vinpattern\*O variable specifies the template for
incoming filenames, which
may have already been processed according to the \*Lcase\*O and
\*Lntrans\*O settings.  The template variables \*L$1\*O
through \*L$9\*O can be included in \*Vinpattern\*O.  All
characters in \*Vinpattern\*O other than \*L$\*O and
protected \*L$\*Os (that is, \*L\e$\*O) define the
values of the template variables.  For example, if the
\*Vinpattern\*O is \*L$1\&.$2\*O and the remote filename is \*Lmydata\&.dat\*O, the value of \*L$1\*O is
\*Lmydata\*O and the value of \*L$2\*O is \*Ldat\*O.
.sp
The \*Voutpattern\*O variable determines the resulting filename.  The
variables \*L$1\*O through \*L$9\*O are replaced by their
values as derived from \*Vinpattern\*O and the variable
\*L$0\*O is replaced by the original filename.  Additionally, the
sequence [\*Vsequence1\*O,\*Vsequence2\*O] is replaced by
the value of \*Vsequence1\*O if \*Vsequence1\*O is not null;
otherwise, it is replaced by the value of \*Vsequence2\*O.  For example,
the following subcommand
would yield \*Lmyfile\&.data\*O from
\*Lmyfile\&.data\*O or
\*Lmyfile\&.data\&.old\*O, \*Lmyfile\&.file\*O
from \*Lmyfile\*O, and \*Lmyfile\&.myfile\*O from \*L\&.myfile\*O:
.iS
nmap $1\&.$2\&.$3 [$1,$2]\&.[$2,file]
\*O\c
.iE
.sp
Spaces can be included in \*Voutpattern\*O.
Use the \e (backslash) character to prevent the special
meanings of \*L$\*O, \*L[\*O, \*L]\*O, and \*L,\*O (comma) in \*Voutpattern\*O.
.LI "\*Lntrans\*O [\*Vin_characters\*O [\*Vout_characters\*O]]"
Sets or unsets the filename character translation mechanism.  If no
arguments are specified, character translation is turned off.  If
arguments are specified, characters in source filenames are translated
for \*Lmget\*O and \*Lmput\*O operations and for
\*Lget\*O and \*Lput\*O operations when the destination filename is not specified.  This subcommand is useful when the local and
remote hosts use different file naming conventions or practices.
Character translation follows the pattern set by \*Vin_characters\*O and
\*Vout_characters\*O.  Characters in a source filename matching
characters in \*Vin_characters\*O are replaced by the corresponding
characters in \*Vout_characters\*O.  If the string \*Vin_characters\*O is
longer than the string \*Vout_characters\*O, characters in
\*Vin_characters\*O are deleted if they have no corresponding character
in \*Vout_characters\*O.
.LI "\*Lopen\*O \*Vhost\*O [\*Vport\*O]"
Establishes a connection to the FTP server at the specified
\*Vhost\*O.  If the optional port number is specified, \*Lftp\*O will
attempt to connect to a server at that port.  If the autologin feature
is set (that is, \*L-n\*O was not specified on the command line),
\*Lftp\*O will attempt to automatically log you in to the FTP server.
You must also have a \*L$HOME/\&.netrc\*O file
with the correct information in it and the correct permissions set.
.LI "\*Lprompt\*O"
Toggles interactive prompting.  If interactive prompting is on (the
default), \*Lftp\*O will prompt for verification before retrieving,
sending, or deleting multiple files during \*Lmget\*O,
\*Lmput\*O, and \*Lmdelete\*O operations.  Otherwise, \*Lftp\*O
will perform the operation on all files specified.
.LI "\*Lproxy\*O [\*Vsubcommand\*O]"
Executes an \*Lftp\*O command on a secondary control connection.  This
subcommand allows \*Lftp\*O to simultaneously connect to two remote
FTP servers for transferring files between the two servers.  To establish
the secondary control connection, specify \*Lopen\*O as
the first \*Lproxy\*O subcommand.  Enter the subcommand
\*Lproxy ?\*O to see the other \*Lftp\*O subcommands that are
executable on the secondary connection.  The following subcommands
behave differently when prefaced by \*Lproxy\*O:
.ML
.LI
The \*Lopen\*O subcommand does not define new macros during the autologin
process.
.LI
The \*Lclose\*O subcommand does not erase existing macro definitions.
.LI
The \*Lget\*O and \*Lmget\*O subcommands transfer files from the host
on the primary connection to the host on the secondary connection.
.LI
The \*Lput\*O, \*Lmput\*O, and \*Lappend\*O subcommands transfer
files from the host on the secondary connection to the host on the
primary connection.
.sp
File transfers require that the FTP server on the secondary
connection support the \*LPASV\*O (passive) instruction.
.LE
.LI "\*Lput\*O \*Vlocal_file\*O [\*Vremote_file\*O]"
Stores a local file on the remote host.  If you do not specify
\*Vremote_file\*O, \*Lftp\*O uses the local filename to name the
remote file, and the remote filename is altered by any settings made by
the \*Lntrans\*O and \*Lnmap\*O subcommands.  The \*Lftp\*O command uses
the current settings for \*Ltype\*O, \*Lform\*O,
\*Lmode\*O, and \*Lstructure\*O while transferring the files.
Refer to the description of each subcommand for additional information.
.LI "\*Lpwd\*O"
Displays the name of the current directory on the remote host.
.LI "\*Lquit\*O"
Ends the file transfer session and exits \*Lftp\*O.  A synonym for
\*Lbye\*O.
.LI "\*Lquote\*O \*Vstring\*O"
Sends the specified \*Vstring\*O verbatim to the remote host.
Unpredictable results can occur when you quote
commands that involve data transfers.
.LI "\*Lrecv\*O \*Vremote_file\*O [\*Vlocal_file\*O]"
Copies the remote file to the local host.  A synonym for
\*Lget\*O.
.LI "\*Lreget\*O \*Vremote_file\*O [\*Vlocal_file\*O]"
Acts like \*Lget\*O, except that if \*Vlocal_file\*O exists and is smaller
than \*Vremote_file\*O, \*Vlocal_file\*O is presumed to be a partially
transferred copy of \*Vremote_file\*O and the transfer is continued from
the apparent point of failure.  This subcommand is useful when
transferring very large files over networks that are prone to dropping
connections.
.LI "\*Lremotehelp\*O [\*Vsubcommand\*O]"
Requests help from the remote FTP server.
.LI "\*Lrename\*O \*Vfrom to\*O"
Renames a file on the remote host.
.LI "\*Lreset\*O"
Clears the reply queue.  This command resynchronizes the
command parsing.
.LI "\*Lrestart\*O \*Vmarker\*O"
Restarts the immediately following \*Lget\*O or \*Lput\*O at the
indicated marker.  On systems that treat files as
unstructured byte arrays (such as OSF/1 and UNIX systems),
\*Vmarker\*O is simply a byte offset into the file.
.LI "\*Lrmdir\*O \*Vremote_directory\*O"
Removes the directory \*Vremote_directory\*O at the remote host.
.LI "\*Lrunique\*O"
Toggles whether unique filenames are created for local destination files
during \*Lget\*O and \*Lmget\*O operations.  If creating unique local
filenames is not enabled (the default), \*Lftp\*O overwrites local files.
Otherwise, if a local file has the same name as specified for a local
destination file, \*Lftp\*O modifies the specified name of the local
destination file with \*L\&.1\*O.  If a local file is already
using the new name, \*Lftp\*O appends the postfix \*L\&.2\*O to
the specified name.  If a local file is already using this second name,
\*Lftp\*O continues incrementing the postfix until it either finds a unique
filename or reaches \*L\&.99\*O without finding a unique name.  If
\*Lftp\*O cannot find a unique name, \*Lftp\*O reports an error and the
transfer does not take place.  Note that \*Lrunique\*O does not
affect local filenames generated from a shell command.
.LI "\*Lsend\*O \*Vlocal_file\*O [\*Vremote_file\*O]"
Stores a local file on the remote host.  A synonym for
\*Lput\*O.
.LI "\*Lsendport\*O"
Toggles the use of FTP \*LPORT\*O instructions.  By default, \*Lftp\*O uses
a \*LPORT\*O instruction when establishing a connection for each data transfer.
When the use of \*LPORT\*O instructions is disabled,
\*Lftp\*O does not use \*LPORT\*O instructions for
data transfers.  The \*LPORT\*O instruction is useful when dealing
with FTP servers that ignore \*LPORT\*O instructions while incorrectly
indicating they were accepted.
.LI "\*Lsize\*O"
Returns the size of \*Vfile\*O on the remote machine in bytes.
.LI "\*Lstatus\*O"
Displays current status of \*Lftp\*O.
.LI "\*Lstruct\*O [\*Vstructure\*O]"
Sets data transfer structure type.
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\" The following sentence is incorrect.
.\"The only structure supported is \*Lstream\*O.
The only structure supported is \*Lfile\*O.
.\"End Digital correction.
.LI "\*Lsunique\*O"
Toggles whether unique filenames are created for remote destination files
during \*Lput\*O and \*Lmput\*O operations.  If creating unique
remote filenames is not enabled
(the default), \*Lftp\*O overwrites remote files.
Otherwise, if a remote file has the same name as specified for a remote
destination file, the remote FTP server modifies the name of the
remote destination file.  Note that the remote server must support the
\*LSTOU\*O instruction.
.LI "\*Lsystem\*O"
Shows the type of operating system running on the remote machine.
.LI "\*Ltenex\*O"
Sets the file transfer type to that needed for TENEX machines.
.LI "\*Ltrace\*O"
Toggles packet tracing.
.LI "\*Ltype\*O [\*Vtype\*O]"
Sets the file transfer \*Ltype\*O to \*Vtype\*O.  If
\*Vtype\*O is not specified, the current type is printed.  The
default type is \*LASCII\*O.
.LI "\*Luser\*O \*Vuser\*O [\*Vpassword\*O] [\*Vaccount\*O]"
Identifies the local user as \*Vuser\*O to the remote
.gL "local user"
FTP server.  If \*Vpassword\*O or \*Vaccount\*O is
not specified and the remote server requires it, \*Lftp\*O prompts for it
locally.  If \*Vaccount\*O is required, \*Lftp\*O sends it to the
remote server after the remote login process completes.
.sp
Note that, unless autologin is disabled by specifying \*L-n\*O on the
command line, this process is done automatically for the initial
connection to the remote server.
You also need a \*L$HOME/\&.netrc\*O file in your home directory
to issue an autologin.
.LI "\*Lverbose\*O"
Toggles verbose mode.  When verbose mode is on (the default), \*Lftp\*O
displays all responses from the remote FTP server.  Additionally,
\*Lftp\*O displays statistics on all file transfers when the transfers
are completed.
.LE
.SS Aborting a File Transfer
To abort a file transfer, use the Interrupt key sequence (often
\*L<Ctrl-c>\*O).  Sending transfers are immediately halted.  Receiving
transfers are halted by sending an FTP protocol \*LABOR\*O command
to the remote server, and discarding any further data received.  The
speed at which this is accomplished depends upon the remote server's
support for \*LABOR\*O processing.  If the remote server does not support
the \*LABOR\*O command, the prompt \*Cftp>\*O does not appear until
the remote server has completed sending the requested file.
.PP
The Interrupt key sequence is ignored when \*Lftp\*O has completed any
local processing and is awaiting a reply from the remote server.  A long
delay in this mode may result from the \*LABOR\*O processing described
above, or from unexpected behavior by the remote server, including
violations of the FTP protocol.  If the delay results from unexpected
remote server behavior, the local \*Lftp\*O program must be killed
by hand.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL 3m
.LI
This example shows how user \*Lsmith\*O, who is
logged in on \*Lhost1\*O, can log in on the remote host
\*Lhost2\*O, check the current working directory on
\*Lhost2\*O and list its contents,
transfer a file, and then end the session.
.iS
\*C$\*L ftp host2
\*O\c
.iE
If the connection to \*Lhost2\*O is successful, a verification
message is displayed on the local system:
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\"The following example was too wide.
.\".oS
.\"Connected to host2.abc.org
.\"220 host2 FTP server (Version 5.47 90 02:27) ready.
.\"Name (host2:smith): \*Lsmith\*C
.\"Password:
.\"\*O\c
.\".oE
.\"Replaced with the following.
.oS
Connected to host2.abc.org
220 host2 FTP server (Version ...) ready.
Name (host2:smith): \*Lsmith\*C
Password:
\*O\c
.oE
.\"End Digital correction.
Enter your name and password when prompted by the system. A message
similar to the following is then displayed on your local system:
.oS
230 User smith logged in

ftp> _
\*O\c
.oE
To set the file transfer type to binary, enter the \*Lbinary\*O
subcommand after the \*Cftp>\*O prompt:
.iS
\*Cftp> \*Lbinary\*O\c
\*O\c
.iE
A message similar to the following is displayed on your local system:
.oS
200 Type set to I
\*O\c
.oE
To check the current working directory, enter the \*Lpwd\*O
command after the \*Cftp>\*O prompt:
.iS
\*Cftp> \*Lpwd\*O\c
\*O\c
.iE
A message similar to the following is displayed on your local system:
.oS
257 "u/smith" is current directory
\*O\c
.oE
To list the contents of the current working directory, enter the \*Lls\*O
command after the \*Cftp>\*O prompt:
.iS
\*Cftp> \*Lls\*O\c
\*O\c
.iE
A message similar to the following is displayed on your local system:
.oS
200 PORT command successful.
150 Opening data connection for /usr/bin/ls
	(555\&.5\&.55\&.555) (0 bytes)
printfile
testfile
226 Transfer complete.
\*O\c
.oE
(The \*COpening data connection\*O message appears on one line,
not on two lines as shown above.)
.sp
To transfer a file from the remote host to the local host, enter
the \*Lget\*O or \*Lmget\*O subcommand following
the \*Cftp>\*O prompt:
.iS
\*Cftp> \*Lget testfile tmp.testfile\*O\c
\*O\c
.iE
A message similar to the following is displayed on your local system:
.oS
200 PORT command successful.
150 Opening data connection for testfile
	(555\&.5\&.55\&.555) (1201 bytes)
226 Transfer complete.
local:tmp.testfile remote:testfile
\*O\c
.oE
(The \*COpening data connection\*O message appears on one line,
not on two lines as shown above.)
.sp
To end the \*Lftp\*O session, enter the \*Lquit\*O subcommand
after the \*Cftp>\*O prompt:
.iS
\*Cftp> \*Lquit\*C
221 Goodbye.
\*C$\*L \(ul
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
This example shows how user \*Lsmith\*O, who is logged in on
\*Lhost1\*O,  can log in as the user
\*Lsmith\*O on the remote host \*Lhost2\*O:
.iS
\*C$\*L ftp host2
\*O\c
.iE
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\"The following example was too wide.
.\".oS
.\"Connected to host2.abc.org
.\"220 host2 FTP server (Version 5.47 13 Mar 90 02:27) ready.
.\"Name (host2:smith):
.\"331 Passwd required for smith
.\"Password:
.\"230 User smith logged in
.\"ftp>
.\"\*O\c
.\".oE
.\"Replaced with the following
.oS
Connected to host2.abc.org
220 host2 FTP server (Version ...) ready.
Name (host2:smith):
331 Passwd required for smith
Password:
230 User smith logged in
ftp>
\*O\c
.oE
.\"End Digital correction.
.LI
In this example, user \*Lsmith\*O
makes a typing error:
.iS
\*C$\*L ftp test
\*O\c
.iE
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\"The following example was too wide.
.\".oS
.\"Connected to test.abc.org
.\"220 test FTP server (Version 5.47 13 Mar 90 02:27) ready.
.\"Name (test:fred): \*Lmsith\*C
.\"530 User msith unknown
.\"ftp> \*Luser smith\*C
.\"331 Passwd required for smith
.\"Password:
.\"230 User smith logged in
.\"ftp>
.\"\*O\c
.\".oE
.\"Replaced with the following:
.oS
Connected to test.abc.org
220 test FTP server (Version ...) ready.
Name (test:fred): \*Lmsith\*C
530 User msith unknown
ftp> \*Luser smith\*C
331 Passwd required for smith
Password:
230 User smith logged in
ftp>
\*O\c
.oE
.\"End Digital correction.
.LI
In this example,
user \*Lfred\*O issues the \*Lftp\*O command without
specifying a hostname, then connects to \*Lhost1\*O using the \*Lopen\*O
subcommand:
.iS
\*C$\*L ftp
\*Cftp> \*Lopen host1\*O
.iE
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\"The following example was too wide.
.\".oS
.\"Connected to host1.abc.org
.\"220 host1 FTP server (Version 5.47 13 Mar 90 02:27) ready.
.\"Name (host1:fred):
.\"331 Passwd required for fred
.\"Password:
.\"230 User fred logged in
.\"ftp>
.\"\*O\c
.\".oE
.\"Replaced with the following:
.oS
Connected to host1.abc.org
220 host1 FTP server (Version ...) ready.
Name (host1:fred):
331 Passwd required for fred
Password:
230 User fred logged in
ftp>
\*O\c
.oE
.\"End Digital correction.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L$HOME/\&.netrc\*O"
Contains automatic login information.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcsh\*O(1), \*Lftpd\*O(8), \*Lrcp\*O(1), \*Lstty\*O(1),
\*Ltftp\*O(1)
.PP
Functions:  \*Lpopen\*O(3)
.PP
Files:  \*Lnetrc\*O(4), \*Liptos\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
