.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: gendisk.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/02 19:52:45 $
.\"
.TH gendisk 1
.SH NAME
\*Lgendisk\*O \- produce distribution disk media
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "gendisk utility"
\*L/usr/bin/gendisk\*O [ \*L-wv\*O ]
[ \*Vhostname\*O\*L:]\*O\*Vproduct-code\*O
\*Vspecial\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
\*Lgendisk\*O
utility is used to produce distribution media on removable moving-head
disks (not floppies).  The utility searches
\*L/etc/kitcap\*O
for the
\*Vproduct-code\*O
(as provided by the user on the command line), creates a new file
system on the partition defined in the kit description, mounts the
disk, transfers files and subsets as described in the
\*Lkitcap\*O
kit description, uses
\*Lsum\*O(1)
to verify files for accuracy in transfer, and then unmounts the file
system.  The
\*Lgendisk\*O
utility can create multiple directories on the disk for separate
products, and can also combine multiple products into one product, all
controlled by
\*L/etc/kitcap\*O.
.PP
The optional
\*Vhostname\*O\*L:\*O
argument is the name of a remote TCP/IP network machine
that contains the
\*Lkitcap\*O
file.  The utility searches
\*L/etc/kitcap\*O
on the
remote machine for the
\*Vproduct-code\*O
and uses it for creating the media.  The colon (:) is a required
delimiter for TCP/IP networks, and space is permitted between the colon
and the
\*Vproduct-code\*O.
For example, if the product code is ULT-4.2-V-BW, and the kitcap file
to be used is on node
\*Lmynode\*O,
the proper syntax for this option is:
.oS
mynode:ULT-4.2-V-BW
.oE
.PP
The
\*Vproduct-code\*O
is a user defined code.  It can be any set of numbers or letters, and
is usually formed in a way to have some meaning as to the product that
it describes.  For example, if the product's name is MYP and its
version is 1, a proper
\*Vproduct-code\*O
for that product might be
\*LMYP010\*O.
.PP
The
\*Vspecial\*O
argument indicates that the device is a special device such as
\*L/dev/rrz1a\*O.
The actual partition that the utility will write the files on is
defined in the
\*Lkitcap\*O
description for the
\*Vproduct-code\*O
that is being used.  Therefore,
it makes no difference what partition is appended to the special device
file used on the command line.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP \-w
Specifies that the
\*Lgendisk\*O
is to write but not verify the product media.
.IP \-v
Specifies that the
\*Lgendisk\*O
is to verify the product media without writing it first.
.PP
If neither flag appears on the command line, the utility writes
and then verifies the files in the kit descriptor.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
You must be a superuser to run this program.  If the optional hostname
is used, you must be able to access files on the remote host as
superuser.
.PP
If the optional hostname is not used, you can access the files used
by \*Lgendisk\*O only if the local hostname is added to the
local \*L/.rhosts\*O file, as follows:
.oS
hostname root
.oE
.PP
The
\*Lgendisk\*O
command asks whether you want to clean the whole disk before writing to
it.  If you answer affirmatively,
\*Lgendisk\*O
erases the entire contents of the disk and writes a new disk label
using default information.
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 15
\*L/dev/rz?a\*O
Device special files
.TP
\*L/etc/kitcap\*O
Kit descriptor database
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lgentapes\*O(1), \*Lsum\*O(1)
.PP
File formats: \*Lkitcap\*O(4)
.PP
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
