.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: gentapes.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/12/10 09:22:46 $
.\" 
.TH gentapes 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgentapes\*O \- produce distribution magnetic tape media
.SH SYNOPSIS
.iX "gentapes utility"
.PP
\*L/usr/bin/gentapes\*O [ \*L-wv\*O ] [ \*Vhostname\*O\*L:]\*O\*Vproduct-code\*O
\*Vspecial\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
\*Lgentapes\*O
utility is used to produce MT9 or TK50 magnetic tape media.  The utility
determines the appropriate media-code (``TK'' or ``MT'') based on the
type of the tape drive
\*Vspecial\*O,
appends that media-code to the
\*Vproduct-code\*O,
and then uses this combined kit identifier to search
\*L/etc/kitcap\*O
for the corresponding kit descriptor.  The utility uses the information
in the kit descriptor to copy files to the tape media mounted on tape
drive
\*Vspecial\*O.
When all files have been transferred, the tape is rewound and read.
The
\*Lsum\*O
command is run on each file, and the results are compared with the
checksum given for that file in the kit image file.  The
\*Lgentapes\*O
utility can produce multivolume tape kits and multiproduct tape kits.
See
\*Lkitcap\*O(4)
for information on specifying these features.
.PP
The optional
\*Vhostname\*O\*L:\*O
argument is the name of a remote TCP/IP network machine
that contains the
\*Lkitcap\*O
file.  The utility searches
\*L/etc/kitcap\*O
on the
remote machine for the
kit identifier
and uses it for creating the media.  The colon (:) is a required
delimiter for TCP/IP networks, and space is permitted between the colon
and the
\*Vproduct-code\*O.
For example, if the product code is ULT-4.2-V-BW, and the kitcap file
to be used is on node
\*Lmynode\*O,
the proper syntax for this option is:
.oS
mynode:ULT-4.2-V-BW
.oE
.PP
The
\*Vproduct-code\*O
is a user defined code.  It can be any set of numbers or letters, and
is usually formed in a way to have some meaning as to the product that
it describes.  For example, if the product's name is MYP and its
version is 1, a proper
\*Vproduct-code\*O
for that product might be
\*LMYP010\*O.
.PP
The
\*Vspecial\*O
argument indicates that the device is a special device such as
\*L/dev/nrmt0l\*O.
The actual partition that the utility will write the files on is
defined in the
\*Lkitcap\*O
description for the
\*Vproduct-code\*O
that is being used.  Therefore,
it makes no difference what partition is appended to the special device
file used on the command line.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP \-w
Specifies that
\*Lgentapes\*O
is to write but not verify the product media.
.IP \-v
Specifies that
\*Lgentapes\*O
is to verify the product media without writing it first.
.PP
If neither flag appears on the command line, the utility writes
and then verifies the files in the kit descriptor.
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 15
\*L/dev/nrmt?l\*O
Device special files
.TP
\*L/etc/kitcap\*O
Kit descriptor database
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lgentapes\*O(1), \*Lsum\*O(1)
.PP
File formats:  \*Lkitcap\*O(4)
.PP
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
