.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: genxlt.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 20:23:50 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\" 
.TH genxlt 1
.SH NAME
\*Lgenxlt\*O \- Generates code set translation table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lgenxlt\*O
\*O[\*L\(hyf\ \*Voutputfile\*O]
\*O[\*Vinputfile\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lgenxlt\*O command reads a source code set conversion table file from
\*Vinputfile\*O and writes the compiled version to \*Voutputfile\*O.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-f \*Voutputfile\*O"
Specifies that the generated version of the code set conversion table be placed
in the file specified by \*Voutputfile\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "genxlt command"
.iX "code set conversion table"
.iX "generating" "code set conversion table"
If \*Vinputfile\*O is not specified,
standard input is used. If \*Voutputfile\*O
is not specified, standard output is used. The source code set conversion table
file contains directives that are acted upon by the \*Lgenxlt\*O
command to produce the compiled version.
.PP
The format of a translation source file is as follows:
.ML
.LI
Lines whose initial nonwhite-space character is the
\*L#\*O (number sign) are treated as comment lines.
.LI
Null lines and lines consisting only of white-space characters
are treated as comment lines.
.LI
Noncomment lines have to be of the following form:
.iS
\*Vsource target comment\*O
.iE
.LE
.PP
If \*Vsource\*O is found in the source code set conversion table file multiple
times, the last entry is used in the compilation of the translation table.
.PP
The \*Vsource\*O and \*Vtarget\*O arguments
must be in the range of 0x00 through 0xff, inclusive; this
restricts the table to 8-bit code sets. The conversion table must
define all of the 256 possible source
values; otherwise, processing the table results in an error.
.PP
The following is an excerpt of a code set conversion table:
.PP
.oS
0x80    0xc7    C\ cedilla
.nL
0x81    0xfc    u\ diaeresis
.nL
0x82    0xe9    e\ acute
.nL
0x83    0xe2    a\ circumflex
.nL
0x84    0xe4    a\ diaeresis
.nL
0x85    0x40    a\ grave
.oE
.PP
The name of the file generated by the \*Lgenxlt\*O command
must follow the following naming convention in order for the \*Liconv\*O
subsystem to recognize it as a conversion file.
.PP
.oS
fromcode: "ISO8859-1-GL"
tocode: "ISO8859-1"
conversion table file: "ISO8859-1-GL_ISO8859-1"
.oE
.PP
The conversion table filename is formed by
concatenating the \*Vtocode\*O filename
onto the \*Vfromcode\*O filename, with an underscore
character between the two. The compiled conversion table must
reside in the \*L/usr/lib/nls/loc/iconvTable\*O directory or,
if the \*LLOCPATH\*O variable is defined, in an
\*LiconvTable\*O directory subordinate to the \*LLOCPATH\*O
directory. Otherwise,
the \*Liconv\*O command does not find the table.
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
If successful, the \*Lgenxlt\*O command exits with a value of 0
(zero). If an unknown flag is detected, or the
specified input file or output file cannot be opened,
the \*Lgenxlt\*O command is unsuccessful and exits with a value of 1. If a
syntax error is detected in the input stream, the \*Lgenxlt\*O command will
exit immediately with a value of 2, and write to standard error the
line numbers where the syntax error occurred.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Liconv\*O(1).
.PP
Functions: \*Liconv\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
