.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getconf.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/20 22:14:38 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.1
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: getconf.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/20 22:14:38 $
.\"
.TH getconf 1 "" "" "" "I18N"
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgetconf\*O - Displays system configuration variable values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sp .4p
.sS
\*Lgetconf\*O
\*Vsystem_configuration\*O
.sp .4p
\*Lgetconf\*O
\*Vpath_configuration\*O \*Vpathname\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "getconf command"
.iX "systems" "configuration variable values"
.iX "configuration variable values"
The \*Vsystem_configuration\*O argument
specifies a system-wide configuration variable.  The
\*Vpath_configuration\*O argument
specifies a system path-configuration variable.   The \*Vpathname\*O
argument specifies a pathname for the \*Vpath_configuration\*O variable.
.PP
The \*Vsystem_configuration\*O argument specifies
system-configuration variables whose values are valid throughout the system.
There are two kinds of system-wide configuration values:
.ML
.LI
System-wide configuration variables
.LI
System standards configuration variables
.LE
.PP
The \*Vpath_configuration\*O argument specifies system
path-configuration variables whose values contain information about
paths and the path structure in the system.
.SS System-Wide Configuration Variables
.IP
System-wide configuration variables contain the minimum
values met throughout all portions of the system. The following
list defines the system-wide configuration variables used with the \*Lgetconf\*O
command:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LARG_MAX\*O"
The maximum length, in bytes, of the arguments for one of the
\*Lexec\*O functions, including environment data.
.LI "\*LATEXIT_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of functions that can be registered with
\*Latexit()\*O per process.
.LI "\*LBC_BASE_MAX\*O"
The maximum value allowed for the \*Lobase\*O variable with the
\*Lbc\*O command.
.LI "\*LBC_DIM_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of elements permitted in an array by the
\*Lbc\*O command.
.LI "\*LBC_SCALE_MAX\*O"
The maximum value allowed for the \*Lscale\*O variable with the
\*Lbc\*O command.
.LI "\*LBC_STRING_MAX\*O"
The maximum length of string constants accepted by the \*Lbc\*O command.
.LI "\*LCHARCLASS_NAME_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of bytes in a character class name.
.LI "\*LCHAR_BIT\*O"
Number of bits in a type of char.
.LI "\*LCHAR_MAX\*O"
The maximum value of a type char.
.LI "\*LCHAR_MIN\*O"
The minimum value of a type char.
.LI "\*LCHILD_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of simultaneous processes for each real user ID.
.LI "\*LCLK_TCK\*O"
The number of clock ticks per second.  The value of \*LCLK_TCK\*O
may be variable, and it should not be assumed that \*LCLK_TCK\*O
is a compile-time constant.
.LI "\*LCOLL_WEIGHTS_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of weights that can
be assigned to an entry in the \*LLC_COLLATE\*O locale-dependent
information in a locale-definition file.
.LI "\*LCS_PATH\*O"
A value for the \*LPATH\*O environment variable that finds all
standard utilities.
.LI "\*LDATAKEYS_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of data keys that may be created per process.
.LI "\*LEXPR_NEST_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of expressions that can be nested within parentheses by the
\*Lexpr\*O command.
.LI "\*LINT_MAX\*O"
The maximum value of an int.
.LI "\*LINT_MIN\*O"
The minimum value of an int.
.LI "\*LLINE_MAX\*O"
The maximum length, in bytes, of a command's
input line (either standard input or another file) when the utility
is described as processing text files. The length includes room for
the trailing newline character.
.LI "\*LLONG_BIT\*O"
Number of bits in a long int.
.LI "\*LLONG_MAX\*O"
The maximum value of a long int.
.LI "\*LLONG_MIN\*O"
The minimum value of a long int.
.LI "\*LMB_LEN_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of bytes in a character for any supported locale.
.LI "\*LNGROUPS_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of simultaneous supplementary group IDs for each process.
.LI "\*LNL_ARGMAX\*O"
The maximum value of digit in calls to the printf() and scanf() functions.
.LI "\*LNL_LANGMAX\*O"
The maximum number of bytes in a LANG name.
.LI "\*LNL_MSGMAX\*O"
The maximum message number.
.LI "\*LNL_NMAX\*O"
The maximum number of bytes in an N-to-1 collation mapping.
.LI "\*LNL_SETMAX\*O"
The maximum set number.
.LI "\*LNL_TEXTMAX\*O"
The maximum number of bytes in a message string.
.LI "\*LNZERO\*O"
Default process priority.
.LI "\*LOPEN_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of files that one process can have open at one time.
.LI "\*LPAGE_SIZE\*O"
The page size granularity for memory regions.
.LI "\*LPASS_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of characters returned by \*Lgetpass()\*O
(not including terminating null).
.LI "\*LPATH\*O"
A value for the \*LPATH\*O environment variable that finds all
standard utilities.
.LI "\*LRE_DUP_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of repeated occurrences
of a regular expression permitted when using the interval-notation
parameters, such as the \*Lm\*O and \*Ln\*O parameters with
the \*Led\*O command.
.LI "\*LSCHAR_MAX\*O"
The maximum value of a type signed char.
.LI "\*LSCHAR_MIN\*O"
The minimum value of a type signed char.
.LI "\*LSHRT_MAX\*O"
The maximum value of a type short.
.LI "\*LSHRT_MIN\*O"
The minimum value of a type short.
.LI "\*LSTREAM_MAX\*O"
The number of streams that one process can have open at one time.
.LI "\*LTMP_MAX\*O"
The minimum number of unique pathnames generated by tmpnam(). Maximum
number of times an application can call tmpnam() reliably.
.LI "\*LTZNAME_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of bytes supported for the name of a time zone
(not the length of the \*LTZ\*O environmental variable).
.LI "\*LUCHAR_MAX\*O"
The maximum value of a type unsigned char.
.LI "\*LUINT_MAX\*O"
The maximum value of a type unsigned int.
.LI "\*LULONG_MAX\*O"
The maximum value of a type unsigned long int.
.LI "\*LUSHRT_MAX\*O"
The maximum value of a type unsigned short int.
.LI "\*LWORD_BIT\*O"
Number of bits in a word or type int.
.LE
.SS System Standards Configuration Variables
.IP
System standards configuration variables contain the \*Eminimum\*O
values required by a particular system standard. The prefixes \*L_POSIX_\*O,
\*LPOSIX2_\*O, \*L_XOPEN\*O, and \*L_AES\*O indicate that the variable
contains the minimum value for a system characteristic required by
the POSIX 1003.1, POSIX 1003.2, X/Open, and OSF/1 AES system standards,
respectively.  System standards are system-wide minimums that the system
meets to support the particular system standard. Actual configuration
values may exceed these standards. The system standards configuration
variables for the \*Lgetconf\*O command are defined as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L_AES_OS_VERSION\*O"
The integer value indicating the revision of the Application Environment
Specification to which the implementation is compliant.
.LI "\*L_POSIX_ARG_MAX\*O"
The length of the arguments for one of the \*Lexec\*O functions,
in bytes, including environment data.
.LI "\*L_POSIX_CHILD_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of simultaneous processes for each real user ID.
.LI "\*L_POSIX_JOB_CONTROL\*O"
This variable has a value of 1 if the system supports job control;
otherwise, the variable is undefined.
.LI "\*L_POSIX_LINK_MAX\*O"
The maximum value of a file's link count.
.LI "\*L_POSIX_LOCALEDEF\*O"
This variable has a value of 1 if the system restricts supported
locales to only those it supplies; otherwise, the variable has a value
of 0 (zero).
.LI "\*L_POSIX_MAX_CANON\*O"
The maximum number of bytes in a terminal canonical input queue.
.LI "\*L_POSIX_MAX_INPUT\*O"
The maximum number of bytes for which
space will be available in a terminal input queue.
.LI "\*L_POSIX_NAME_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of bytes in a filename.
.LI "\*L_POSIX_NGROUPS_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of simultaneous supplementary group IDs for each process.
.LI "\*L_POSIX_OPEN_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of files that one process can have open at one time.
.LI "\*L_POSIX_PATH_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of bytes in a pathname.
.LI "\*L_POSIX_PIPE_BUF\*O"
The maximum number of bytes that can be written
atomically when writing to a pipe.
.LI "\*L_POSIX_REENTRANT_FUNCTIONS\*O"
This variable has a value of 1 if the system supports
POSIX reentrant functions; otherwise, the variable is undefined.
.LI "\*L_POSIX_SAVED_IDS\*O"
This variable has a value of 1 if
each process has a saved set-user-ID and a saved set-group-ID;
otherwise, the variable is undefined.
.LI "\*L_POSIX_SSIZE_MAX\*O"
The maximum value that can be stored in an object of type \*Lssize_t\*O.
.LI "\*L_POSIX_STREAM_MAX\*O"
The number of streams that one process can have open at one time.
.LI "\*L_POSIX_THREAD_ATTR_STACKSIZE\*O"
This variable has a value of 1 if the system supports
the POSIX threads stack size attribute;
otherwise, the variable is undefined.
.LI "\*L_POSIX_THREADS\*O"
This variable has a value of 1 if the system supports POSIX threads;
otherwise, the variable is undefined.
.LI "\*L_POSIX_TZNAME_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of bytes supported for the name of a time zone
(not the length of the \*LTZ\*O environmental variable).
.LI "\*L_POSIX_VERSION\*O"
The date of approval of the most current
version of the POSIX 1 standard that the system supports. The
date is a 6-digit number, with the first 4 digits signifying the
year and the last 2 digits the month. Different versions of the POSIX
1 standard are periodically approved by the IEEE Standards Board,
and the date of approval is used to distinguish between different versions.
.LI "\*LPOSIX2_BC_BASE_MAX\*O"
The maximum value allowed for the \*Lobase\*O variable with the
\*Lbc\*O command.
.LI "\*LPOSIX2_BC_DIM_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of elements permitted in an array by the
\*Lbc\*O command.
.LI "\*LPOSIX2_BC_SCALE_MAX\*O"
The maximum value allowed for the \*Lscale\*O variable with the \*Lbc\*O
command.
.LI "\*LPOSIX2_BC_STRING_MAX\*O"
The maximum length string constants accepted by the \*Lbc\*O command.
.LI "\*LPOSIX2_CHAR_TERM\*O"
One or more terminal types capable of all
operations described in ISO/IEC 9945.  This value need not be present
on a system not supporting the User Portability Utilities Option.
.LI "\*LPOSIX2_COLL_WEIGHTS_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of weights that can be assigned to an entry of the
\*LLC_COLLATE\*O locale variable in a locale-definition file.
.LI "\*LPOSIX2_EXPR_NEST_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of expressions that can be nested within parentheses by the
\*Lexpr\*O command.
.LI "\*LPOSIX2_LINE_MAX\*O"
The maximum length, in bytes, of a command's
input line (either standard input or another file) when the utility
is described as processing text files. The length includes room for
the trailing newline character.
.LI "\*LPOSIX2_RE_DUP_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of repeated occurrences of a regular expression permitted
when using the interval-notation parameters, such as the \*Lm\*O and
\*Ln\*O parameters with the \*Led\*O command.
.LI "\*LPOSIX2_UPE\*O"
This variable has a value of 1 if
the system supports the User Portability Utilities Option; otherwise,
the variable has a value of 0 (zero).
.LI "\*LPOSIX2_VERSION\*O"
The date of approval of the most current
version of the POSIX 2 standard that the system supports. The
date is a 6-digit number, with the first 4 digits signifying the
year and the last 2 digits the month. Different versions of the POSIX
2 standard are periodically approved by the IEEE Standards Board,
and the date of approval is used to distinguish between different versions.
.LI "\*LPOSIX2_C_BIND\*O"
This variable has a value of 1 if the system
supports the optional C Language Development Facilities specified
by POSIX 2 and the optional C Language Bindings Option from POSIX
2; otherwise, the variable is undefined.
.LI "\*LPOSIX2_C_DEV\*O"
This variable has a value of 1 if the system
supports the optional C Language Development Utilities from POSIX
2; otherwise, the variable is undefined.
.LI "\*LPOSIX2_C_VERSION\*O"
The integer value 199209L.  This value indicates the version of the
interfaces described in the
C-Language Bindings Option section of the XPG4 standard.
This value changes with each published version of
ISO/IEC 9945 to indicate the 4-digit year and
2-digit month that the standard was approved by the IEEE Standards Board.
.LI "\*LPOSIX2_FORT_DEV\*O"
This variable has a value of 1 if the
system supports the FORTRAN Development Utilities Option from POSIX
2; otherwise, the variable is undefined.
.LI "\*LPOSIX2_FORT_RUN\*O"
This variable has a value of 1 if the
system supports the FORTRAN Runtime Utilities Option from POSIX 2;
otherwise, the variable is undefined.
.LI "\*LPOSIX2_LOCALEDEF\*O"
This variable has a value of 1 if the
system supports the creation of new locales with the
\*Llocaledef\*O command; otherwise, the variable is undefined.
.LI "\*LPOSIX2_SW_DEV\*O"
This variable has a value of 1 if the system supports the Software Development
Utilities Option from POSIX 2; otherwise, the variable is undefined.
.LI "\*LSSIZE_MAX\*O"
The maximum value that can be stored in an object of type \*Lssize_t\*O.
.LI "\*L_XOPEN_CRYPT\*O"
To have a value other than -1 if the implementation supports the X/Open
Encryption Feature Group.
.LI "\*L_XOPEN_ENH_I18N\*O"
To have a value other than -1 if the implementation supports the X/Open
Enhanced Internationalisation Feature Group.
.LI "\*L_XOPEN_SHM\*O"
To have a value other than -1 if the implementation supports the X/Open
Shared Memory Feature Group.
.LI "\*L_XOPEN_VERSION\*O"
An integer indicating
the most current version of the X/OPEN standard that the system supports.
.LI "\*L_XOPEN_XCU_VERSION\*O"
An integer value indicating the version of the XCU specification to which
the implementation conforms. If the value is -1, no commands and utilities
are provided on the implementation.
.LI "\*L_XOPEN_XPG2\*O"
It is defined only if the implementation supports the X/Open Portability Guide,
Volume2, January 1987, XVS System Calls and Libraries.
.LI "\*L_XOPEN_XPG3\*O"
It is defined only if the implementation supports the X/Open Specification,
February 1992, System Interfaces and Headers, Issue 3.
.LI "\*L_XOPEN_XPG4\*O"
It is defined only if the implementation supports the X/Open CAE Specification,
July 1992, Systems Interfaces and Headers, Issue 4.
.LE
.SS System Path Configuration Variables
.IP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LLINK_MAX\*O"
The maximum value of a file's link count. If the \*Vpathname\*O argument refers
to a directory, the value returned applies to the directory itself.
.LI "\*LMAX_CANON\*O"
The maximum number of bytes in a terminal canonical
input queue. If the \*Vpathname\*O argument  does not specify a
terminal file, the \*Lgetconf\*O command exits with a nonzero value.
.LI "\*LMAX_INPUT\*O"
The maximum number of bytes for which space will be available in a terminal
input queue. If the \*Vpathname\*O argument does not specify a terminal file,
the \*Lgetconf\*O command exits with a nonzero value.
.LI "\*LNAME_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of bytes in a filename.
If the \*Vpathname\*O argument specifies a directory, the value
returned applies to the filenames within the directory.
.LI "\*LPATH_MAX\*O"
The maximum number of bytes in a pathname.
If the \*Vpathname\*O argument specifies a directory, the value
returned is the maximum length of a relative pathname when the specified
directory is the working directory.
.LI "\*LPIPE_BUF\*O"
The maximum number of bytes that can be written atomically when writing to a
pipe. If the \*Vpathname\*O argument specifies a FIFO or a pipe, the value
returned applies to that object. If the \*Vpathname\*O argument specifies a
directory, the value returned applies to any FIFO created in that directory. If
the \*Vpathname\*O argument does not specify a directory or a FIFO file, the
\*Lgetconf\*O command exits with a nonzero value.
.LI "\*L_POSIX_CHOWN_RESTRICTED\*O"
This variable has a value of 1 when
the use of the \*Lchown\*O function is
restricted to a process with appropriate privileges and the group
ID of a file can only be changed to the effective group ID of the
process or to one of its supplementary group IDs. If the variable
is undefined, it varies in the system, depending upon the path.
.LI "\*L_POSIX_NO_TRUNC\*O"
This variable has a value of 1 when
pathnames longer than the limit specified
by the \*LNAME_MAX \*Ovariable will generate an error. If the variable
is undefined, it varies in the system, depending upon the path.
.LI "\*L_POSIX_VDISABLE\*O"
When this variable has a value of 1,
terminal special characters, which are
defined in the \*Ltermios.h\*O header file, can be disabled.
If the \*Vpathname\*O argument  does not specify a terminal file,
the \*Lgetconf\*O command will exit with a nonzero value.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To display the value of the \*LARG_MAX\*O environment variable, enter:
.iS
getconf ARG_MAX
.iE
.LI
To display the value of the PATH_MAX environmental variable for the
\*L/usr\*O directory, enter:
.sS
\*Lgetconf PATH_MAX /usr\*O
.sE
.IP
This sequence returns the following message:
.oS
The value of PATH_MAX in /usr is 1023
.oE
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/include/limits.h\*O"
Defines system configuration variables.
.LI "\*L/usr/include/unistd.h\*O"
Defines system configuration variables.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lenv\*O(1).
.PP
.EQ
delim off
.EN
