.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: graph.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/29 15:49:22 $
.\"
.TH graph 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lgraph\*O \- Draws a graph.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Lgraph\*O [\*Vflag\*O ...]
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-a\*O"
Supplies abscissas automatically and uses the next two arguments to set the
spacing and starting point.  Spacing is given by the next argument (default 1).
A second optional argument is the starting point for
automatic abscissas (default 0 or the lower limit given by \*L\-x\*O).
.LI "\*L\-b\*O"
Breaks the graph after each label in the input.
.LI "\*L\-c\*O"
Uses the specified string (next argument) as the label.
.LI "\*L\-g\*O"
Uses the specified number (next argument) in setting up the
grid style:  0 (no grid), 1 (frame with ticks),
and 2 (full grid).  The default is 2.
.LI "\*L\-h\*O"
Uses the specified number (next argument) as the fraction of space for height.
.LI "\*L\-l\*O"
Uses the specified string (next argument) as the graph label.
.LI "\*L\-m\*O"
Uses the specified number (next argument) in setting up the line mode:  0
(disconnected) and 1 (connected).  The default is 1.
.LI "\*L\-r\*O"
Uses the specified number (next argument) as the fraction of space to right
before plotting.
.LI "\*L\-s\*O"
Saves the screen before plotting.  (No erase)
.LI "\*L\-t\*O"
Transposes the vertical and horizontal axes.
.LI "\*L\-u\*O"
Uses the specified number (next argument) as the fraction of space to move up
before plotting.
.LI "\*L\-w\*O"
Uses the specified number (next argument) as the fraction of space for width.
.LI "\*L\-x\*O [ \*Ll\*O ]"
Determines the x axis logarithmically.  The next two arguments after
the \*Ll\*O argument determine lower and upper x
limits respectively.  The third argument determines grid spacing on x axis.
.LI "\*L\-y\*O [ \*Ll\*O ]"
Determines the y axis logarithmically.  The next two arguments after
the \*Ll\*O argument determine lower and upper y
limits respectively.  The third argument determines grid spacing on y axis.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "graph command" "plot command"
.iX "graph" "drawing"
.iX "graph command"
The \*Lgraph\*O command with no options takes pairs of numbers from the
standard input as abscissas and ordinates of a graph.  Successive points
are connected by straight lines.  The graph is encoded on the standard output
for display by the \*Lplot\*O filters.
.PP
If the coordinates of a point are followed by a nonnumeric string, that
string is printed as a label beginning on the point.  Labels can be
surrounded with quotation marks ("..."), in which case they can be empty
or contain blanks and numbers.  Labels never contain new lines.
.PP
A legend indicating the grid range is produced
with a grid unless the \*L\-s\*O flag is present.
.PP
If a specified lower limit exceeds the upper limit, the axis is reversed.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The \*Lgraph\*O command stores all points internally and drops those
for which there is no room.
.PP
Segments that run out of bounds are dropped, not windowed.
.PP
Logarithmic axes cannot be reversed.
.\" Grant Sullivan was going to port plot to DEC OSF/1 to be used
.\" by the graph command.  We were then going to add a plot(1)
.\" manpage.  However, Grant never had a chance to do the plot port,
.\" so, because of QAR 10391, I'm commenting out the REL INFO section.
.\" .SH RELATED INFORMATION
.\" .PP
.\" Commands: \*Lplot\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
