.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: groups.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/13 15:25:59 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH groups 1
.SH NAME
\*Lgroups\*O \- Displays your group membership
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lgroups\*O
\*O[\*Vuser\*O]
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "groups command"
.iX "displaying" "group name"
.iX "groups" "displaying"
.PP 
The \*Lgroups\*O command writes to standard output the groups to
which you or the specified \*Vuser\*O belong.
The OSF/1 operating system allows
a user to belong to many different groups at the same time.
.PP 
Your primary group is specified in the
.iX "primary group"
\*L/etc/passwd\*O file.
Once you are logged in, you can change your active group with the
\*Lnewgrp\*O shell command (see \*Lsh\*O).
When you create a file, its group ID is that of your active group.
.PP 
Other groups that you belong to are specified in the
\*L/etc/group\*O file.  If you belong to more than one group, you can
access files belonging to any of those groups without changing your
primary group ID.  These are called your \*Vconcurrent groups\*O.
.iX "/etc/group"
.iX "files" "/etc/group"
.iX "concurrent groups"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
To determine your group membership, enter:
.iS
groups
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The groups to which you belong will be displayed.  For example:
.iS
devel  prod
\*O\c
.iE
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/etc/group\*O"
Contains group information.
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O" 
Contains user information.
.LE 
.SH NOTES
.PP 
The \*L/etc/passwd\*O and \*L/etc/group\*O
files must be on the same node.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
Commands: \*Lcsh\*O(1), \*Lksh\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1).
.PP 
Functions:  \*Linitgroups\*O(3), \*Lsetgroups\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
