.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: head.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/13 21:36:34 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH head 1
.SH NAME
\*Lhead\*O \- Displays the beginning of files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.SS Current Syntax
.sS
\*Lhead [-c \*Vbytes\*O] [\*L-n \*Vlines\*O] [\*Vfile\*O...]
.sE
.SS Obsolescent Syntax
.sS
\*Lhead\*O
\*O[\*L-\*Vlines\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O
\&...]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lhead\*O command prints the first \*Vcount\*O lines of each
of the specified files to standard output.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
The default \*Vcount\*O is 10.
.LI "\*L-c \*Vbytes\*O"
Specifies the number of bytes to display. If the last byte written is
not a newline character, a newline character is appended to the output.
.LI "\*L-n \*Vlines\*O"
Specifies the number of lines to display
.LI "\*L- \*Vlines\*O"
Works exactly as \*L-n\*Vlines\*O. Obsolescent.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "head command"
.iX "files" "displaying beginning"
.iX "displaying" "file beginning"
.PP
If you do not specify a \*Vfile\*O, \*Lhead\*O reads standard input.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To display the first 5 lines of a file called \*Ltest\*O, enter:
.iS
head -n 5 test
\*O\c
.iE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcat\*O(1), \*Lmore\*O(1)/\*Lpage\*O(1),
\*Lpg\*O(1), \*Ltail\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
