.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: hostid.1,v $ $Revision: 3.6.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 19:01:29 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\" 
.TH hostid 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lhostid\*O \- Sets or displays the identifier of the local host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/sbin/hostid\*O
\*O[\*Vhexadecimal_number\*O
|
\*Vinternet_address\*O]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "hostid command"
.iX "displaying" "host identifier"
.iX "identifiers" "host"
.iX "hosts" "setting and displaying identifier"
.iX "setting" "host identifier"
The \*Lhostid\*O command displays the identifier (either
a unique hostname or a numeric argument) of the local
.gL "local host"
host as a hexadecimal number.
The identifier must be unique across all hosts
and is commonly set to the Internet address of the specified host.
.gL "Internet address"
The superuser can set the host ID by specifying an \*Vinternet_address\*O
or \*Vhexadecimal_number\*O argument.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To display the identifier of the local host, enter:
.iS
$ hostid
.iE
.oS
0xc009c803
\*O\c
.oE
.IP
The \*Lhostid\*O command displays the identifier of the host as a
hexadecimal number.
.LI
To set the identifier of the local host to
the local Internet address,
enter:
.iS
$ hostid 555.5.55.555
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The \*Lhostid\*O command converts the Internet address to its hexadecimal
equivalent, and then sets the local host to this address.
.IP
Note that the sample Internet address in this example, \*L555.5.55.555\*O, is
not a valid Internet address and would cause \*Lhostid\*O to return an error.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lhostname\*O(1).
.PP
Functions:  \*Lgethostid\*O(2), \*Lsethostid\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
