.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: iconv.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 20:34:42 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH iconv 1
.SH NAME
\*Liconv\*O \- Converts encoded characters to another code set
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.\" .zA "defect, 6424, R1.1.1, Revised the file specification"
.sS
\*Liconv\*O
\*L\(hyf\*O\ \*Vfrom_code\*O
\*L\(hyt\*O\ \*Vto_code\*O
\*O[\*Vfile\*O \&...]
.sE
.\" .zZ "defect, 6424, R1.1.1, Revised the file specification"
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "iconv command"
.iX "codesets" "converting between"
.iX "characters" "codeset conversion of"
The \*Liconv\*O command converts the encoding of characters
in \*Vfile\*O from one coded character set to another and writes
the results to standard output.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-f\*O \*Vfrom_code\*O"
Specifies the input codeset.
.LI "\*L-t\*O \*Vto_code\*O"
Specifies the output codeset.
.LE
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.PP
The input and output coded character
sets are identified by \*Vfrom_code\*O and \*Vto_code\*O.  If the \*Vfile\*O
argument is not specified on the command line, the \*Liconv\*O
command reads the standard input.  The result of specifying
invalid characters in the input stream is that the input value is
translated to the substitute character.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\" Changed ajec and AJEC to eucJP as per John Chee
To convert the contents of the \*LeucJP.file\*O file from code set
\*LeucJP\*O to \*LSJIS\*O, and store the results in the
\*Lsjis.file\*O file, enter:
.PP
.iS
\*Liconv -f eucJP -t SJIS eucJP.file > sjis.file\*O
.iE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/nls/loc/iconv/*\*O"
Algorithmic converters.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/nls/loc/iconvTable/*\*O"
Table converters.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lgenxlt\*O(1).
.PP
Functions:  \*Liconv\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
