.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *       Modified by Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994       *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *       This file no longer matches the original Free Software      *
.\" *       Foundation file.                                            *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ident.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.6.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/20 22:14:19 $
.\"
.de Id
.ds Rv \\$3
.ds Dt \\$4
.ds iD \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
..
.Id $Id: ident.1,v 1.1.6.4 1993/12/20 22:14:19 Dick_Binder Exp $
.ds r \s-1RCS\s0
.if n .ds - \%--
.if t .ds - \(em
.ds dl $
.TH ident 1 "" "" "" "Free Software Foundation"
.SH NAME
ident \- identify files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.NX R "ident command"
.NX R "RCS"
.B ident
[
.B \-q
] [
.I file
\&.\|.\|. ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ident
searches for all occurrences of the pattern
.BI $ keyword : .\|.\|. $
in the named files or, if no file name appears, the standard input.
.PP
These patterns are normally inserted automatically by the \*r command
.BR co (1),
but can also be inserted manually.
The option
.B \-q
suppresses
the warning given if there are no patterns in a file.
.PP
.B ident
works on text files as well as object files and dumps.
For example, if the C program in
.B f.c
contains
.PP
.ps -2
\f3char rcsid[] = "\*(dlId: f.c,v 1.1.6.2 1993/10/07 00:21:45 Gunther_Schwarz Exp \*(dl";\fP
.ps
.PP
and
.B f.c
is compiled into
.BR f.o ,
then the command
.PP
.B "ident  f.c  f.o"
.PP
will output
.nf
.PP
.ft 3
f.c:
    \*(dlId: f.c,v 1.1.6.2 1993/10/07 00:21:45 Gunther_Schwarz Exp \*(dl
f.o:
    \*(dlId: f.c,v 1.1.6.2 1993/10/07 00:21:45 Gunther_Schwarz Exp \*(dl
.ft
.fi
.SH IDENTIFICATION
Author: Walter F. Tichy.
.br
Revision Number: \*(Rv; Release Date: \*(Dt.
.br
Copyright \(co 1982, 1988, 1989 by Walter F. Tichy.
.br
Copyright \(co 1990 by Paul Eggert.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ci(1), co(1), rcs(1), rcsdiff(1), rcsintro(1), rcsmerge(1), rlog(1),
rcsfile(5)
.br
Walter F. Tichy,
\*r\*-A System for Version Control,
.I "Software\*-Practice & Experience"
.BR 15 ,
7 (July 1985), 637-654.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
