.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: inc.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:31:26 $
.\"
.TH inc 1
.SH NAME
inc \- incorporate new mail
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B inc
[
\*V+folder\*O
] [
\*Voptions\*O
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.\" .SH Arguments
.\" .IP \f2+folder\f1 10
.\" The folder into which
.\" \*Linc\*O
.\" places the mail it incorporates.
.\" If no
.\" .I +folder
.\" argument is given, mail is incorporated into your
.\" \*L+inbox\*O
.\" folder.
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "inc command"
.iX "incorporating mail"
Use \*Linc\*O to incorporate mail from your
incoming maildrop into a folder.
.\"
.\" ***Info from old Arguments section
.\"
.PP
Normally, \*Linc\*O incorporates new mail into your \*L+inbox\*O folder.
If you supply a
\*V+folder\*O
argument, mail is incorporated into the named folder
instead of your \*L+inbox\*O.
.\"
.\" ***End of Arguments stuff
.\"
.PP
The new messages being incorporated are numbered sequentially
starting with the next highest available number in the folder.
If the specified (or default) folder does not exist, \*Linc\*O will
ask you whether you want to create it.
As the messages are processed, a \*Lscan\*O listing
of the new mail is produced.  See \*Lscan\*O(1) for
details of the listing produced.
.PP
The folder into which messages are being incorporated
will become the current folder.
.PP
If your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O contains a \*LMsg\-Protect:\*O entry,
the mail system
will use this as the protection on the newly created messages;
otherwise, it will use the default of 0600.
This means that messages created will have read
and write permission for the user only.
During all operations on messages, the mail system
will preserve this initially assigned protection
for each message.
You can also use \*Lchmod\*O(1) to set a different protection
on an individual message;
in this case the mail system will preserve the new protection.
.PP
Note that \*Linc\*O will incorporate improperly formatted
.\" SMTP
messages into your folder,
inserting a blank line prior to the offending
component and printing a comment identifying the bad message.
.\" Invalid X.400 messages are moved to the Undeliverable Queue
.\" of the X.400 MTA, and an explanatory message replaces them.
.\"
.PP
If the entry \*LUnseen-Sequence\*O
is present in your profile,
then \*Linc\*O will add each of the newly incorporated messages to each
sequence named by the profile entry.
This is similar to the \*LPrevious-Sequence\*O profile
entry supported by all MH commands which take
\*Vmsg\*O
or
\*Vmsgs\*O
arguments.
Note that \*Linc\*O will not zero each sequence prior to adding messages.
.PP
If the environment variable \*L$MAILDROP\*O is set,
then \*Linc\*O uses it as the location of your maildrop instead of the
default.
If this variable is not set,
then \*Linc\*O will consult the profile entry \*LMaildrop\*O for
this information. If the value found is not absolute,
then it is interpreted relative to your Mail directory,
which is usually \*L$HOME/Mail\*O. If the value is not found,
then \*Linc\*O will look in the standard system location for your maildrop.
The
.B \-file
option will override all of these.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP "\-audit \f2audit-file\f1" 10
.PD 0
.IP \-noaudit 10
.PD
Keeps a record of all new mail that is incorporated.
The \*Linc\*O places a \*Lscan\*O line in the named audit file
for each message it incorporates.
This is useful for keeping track of the volume and source of incoming
mail.
.IP
This option is often set up in the \*L\&.mh_profile\*O file.
See \*Lmh_profile\*O(4) for more information on
how to add entries to the file.
If this option is added to the \*L\&.mh_profile\*O, it
can be overridden using the
.B \-noaudit
option at the command line.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-changecur 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nochangecur 10
.PD
Makes the first new message the current message.
This is the default operation of \*Linc\*O. If you want
the current message to remain as it was, use the
.B \-nochangecur
option.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-file\ \f2name\f1
Incorporates mail from a named file.
This is usually a file other than your maildrop.
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
If you specify a
.B \-file
option, \*Linc\*O will look in the named file whether or
not you have specified the
.B \-source\ file
option.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
Note that the mail system will not zero the named file
unless the
.B \-truncate
switch is given.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-form\ \f2formatfile\f1
Controls the format of the display produced.
The output of \*Linc\*O is formatted according to the instructions in
the named file.
The file must be an mhl format file; see \*Lmh-format\*O(4) for
more information.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-format\ \f2string\f1
Controls the format of the display produced.
The output of \*Linc\*O is formatted according to the instructions
given by the string supplied.
This must be a standard format string; see \*Lmh-format\*O(4) for
more information.
If the string contains blank spaces, the whole
string must be enclosed in double quotes.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-help
Prints list of the valid options for this command.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.IP \-rpop 10
.PD 0
.IP \-norpop 10
.PD
Specifies whether X.400 mail should be fetched
over a trusted or non-trusted link.
If you use the
.B \-source\ x400
option, the incoming X.400 mail
can be carried out over a trusted or a non-trusted link.
In the non-trusted case, the mail system will prompt you
to supply a password.
You can specify a trusted link by using the
.B \-rpop
option, or a non-trusted link by using
\f3\-norpop\f1.
The default is
\f3\-rpop\f1.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.\"
.IP \-silent 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nosilent 10
.PD
Directs \*Linc\*O to be quiet and not ask any questions at all.
This is useful for putting \*Linc\*O in the background and going on to other
things.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.IP \-source\ \f2source\f1
Retrieves mail from specified sources only.
The option recognizes two sources:
.B \-source\ file
specifies the maildrop file;
.B \-source\ x400
specifies mail sent over the X.400 transport system.
Both of these options are case-insensitive.
You can specify one or more of these options with the same
command.
If you do not specify a
.B \-source
option, \*Linc\*O will use all known sources.
So you will receive all incoming mail,
whatever source it comes from.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-source file"
Specifies the source from which mail is retrieved.
The only value allowed is \f3file\f1,
which is the standard mail system.
Additional values are supported only for use with other
mail systems.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.IP \-truncate
.PD 0
.IP \-notruncate
.PD
Zeroes your maildrop file when mail is fetched from it.
This is the default operation;
your mail drop will be zeroed,
unless the
.B \-notruncate
option is given.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-width
Controls the width of the display produced by \*Linc\*O. The
default is the width of the terminal;
if no value is given, \*Linc\*O prints its display as wide as the screen allows.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The defaults for this command are:
.IP \*L+folder\*O
defaults to \*L+inbox\*O
.br
.B \-noaudit
.br
.B \-changecur
.br
.\" .B \-format
.\" defaults as described above
.\" .br
.\" .B \-rpop
.\" .br
.B \-nosilent
.br
.B \-truncate
if the
.B \-file
option is not given,
.B \-notruncate
otherwise
.br
.B \-width
defaults to the width of the terminal
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
For this version of MH, the
.B \-source
option only supports the value \f3file\f1.
Additional values are supported for use only with
other mail systems.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"
.\" ***EXAMPLES COMMENTED OUT
.ig
The following example fetches incoming X.400 mail only:
.oS
% inc -source x400
.oE
.PP
The next example fetches incoming mail from your maildrop
as well as incoming X.400 mail.
Note that by default \*Linc\*O fetches mail from all sources that
it knows about:
.oS
% inc -source file -source x400
.oE
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.PP
The following example fetches incoming mail and places it in the
folder \*L+not_read\*O:
.oS
% inc +not_read
.oE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine your Mail directory
Alternate-Mailboxes:+To determine your mailboxes
Folder-Protect:+To set mode when creating a new folder
Maildrop:+To determine the location of your maildrop
Msg-Protect:+To set mode when creating a new message
+and audit-file
Unseen-Sequence:+To name sequences denoting unseen messages
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L$HOME/\&.mh_profile\*O
The user profile.
.TP
\*L/usr/lib/mh/mtstailor\*O
The system customization file.
.TP
\*L/usr/spool/mail/$USER\*O
The user's maildrop.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lchmod\*O(1), \*Lmhl\*O(1), \*Lmhmail\*O(1), \*Lscan\*O(1),
\*Lmh-mail\*O(4), \*Lpost\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
