.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: install.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/13 15:28:14 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH install 1
.SH NAME
\*Linstall\*O \- Installs a command
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Linstall\*O
\*O[\*L-sS\*O]
\*O[\*L-c\*O
\*Vdirectory\*O]
\*O[\*L-g\*O
\*Vgroup\*O]
\*O[\*L-m\*O
\*Vmode\*O]
\*O[\*L-u\*O
\*Vowner\*O]
\*Vfile\*O
\*O[\*Vdirectory\*O
\&...]
.PP 
\*Linstall\*O
\*O[\*L-osS\*O]
\*O[\*L-f\*O
\*Vdirectory\*O]
\*O[\*L-g\*O
\*Vgroup\*O]
\*O[\*L-m\*O
\*Vmode\*O]
\*O[\*L-u\*O
\*Vowner\*O]
\*Vfile\*O
\*O[\*Vdirectory\*O
\&...]
.PP 
\*Linstall\*O
\*O[\*L-g\*O
\*Vgroup\*O]
\*O[\*L-iosS\*O]
\*O[\*L-m\*O
\*Vmode\*O]
\*O[\*L-n\*O
\*Vdirectory\*O]
\*O[\*L-u\*O
\*Vowner\*O]
\*Vfile\*O
\*O[\*Vdirectory\*O
\&...]
.PP 
\*Linstall\*O
\*O[\*L-g\*O
\*Vgroup\*O]
\*O[\*L-MosS\*O]
\*O[\*L-m\*O
\*Vmode\*O]
\*O[\*L-u\*O
\*Vowner\*O]
\*Vfile\*O
\*O[\*Vdirectory\*O
\&...]
.sE 
.PP
The \*Linstall\*O command installs \*Vfile\*O in a specific
place within a file system.  It is most often used in makefiles.
.SH "FLAGS"
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-c\*O \*Vdirectory\*O"
Installs a new command file in \*Vdirectory\*O
only if that file does not already exist there. If \*Linstall\*O finds
a copy of \*Vfile\*O there, it issues a message and exits without
overwriting the file. This flag can be used alone or with the \*L-g\*O,
\*L-m\*O, \*L-s\*O, \*L-S\*O, or \*L-u\*O flags.
.LI "\*L-f\*O \*Vdirectory\*O" 
Forces installation of \*Vfile\*O
in \*Vdirectory\*O whether or not \*Vfile\*O already exists.
If the file being installed does not already exist, the command sets
the permission code and owner of the new file to \*L755\*O and \*Lbin\*O,
.gL "owner"
.gL "permissions"
respectively. This flag can be used alone or with the \*L-g\*O, \*L-m\*O,
\*L-o\*O, \*L-s\*O, \*L-S\*O, or \*L-u\*O flags.
.LI "\*L-g\*O \*Vgroup\*O" 
Specifies a different group for
the destination file.  The default group is \*Lbin\*O.
.LI "\*L-i\*O" 
Ignores the default directory list and searches only
those directories specified on the command line.  This flag cannot
be used with the \*L-c\*O, \*L-f\*O, or \*L-M\*O flags.
.LI "\*L-M\*O" 
Moves \*Vfile\*O to the directory instead
of copying it.  Cannot be used with the \*L-c\*O,
\*L-f\*O, \*L-i\*O, or \*L-n\*O flags.
.LI "\*L-m\*O \*Vmode\*O" 
Specifies the mode of the destination file.
.LI "\*L-n\*O \*Vdirectory\*O" 
Installs \*Vfile\*O in \*Vdirectory\*O
if it is not in any of the searched directories, and sets the
permissions and owner of the file to \*L755\*O and \*Lbin\*O,
respectively.  This flag cannot be used with the \*L-c\*O, \*L-f\*O, or
\*L-M\*O flags.
.LI "\*L-o\*O" 
Saves the old copy of \*Vfile\*O by copying it into
a file called \*LOLD\*Vfile\*O in the same directory.  This flag
cannot be used with the \*L-c\*O flag.
.LI "\*L-u\*O \*Vowner\*O" 
Specifies a different owner
of the destination file.  The default owner is \*Lbin\*O.
.LI "\*L-s\*O" 
Suppresses the display of all but error messages.
.LI "\*L-S\*O" 
Causes the binary to be stripped after installation (see \*Lstrip\*O).
.LE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
When replacing files, the \*Linstall\*O command copies (or moves) each
file into the appropriate directory, thereby retaining the original
owner and permissions.  A newly created \*Vfile\*O has permission
code \*L755\*O, owner \*Lbin\*O, and group \*Lbin\*O.  The
\*Linstall\*O command writes a message telling you which
files it is replacing or creating and where they are going.
.PP 
If you supply no arguments, the \*Linstall\*O command
searches the \*L/bin\*O, \*L/usr/bin\*O, \*L/etc\*O,
\*L/lib\*O, and \*L/usr/lib\*O directories (in that order) for
a file with the same name as \*Vfile\*O.  The first time it finds
one, it overwrites it with \*Vfile\*O and issues a message indicating
that it has done so. If a match is not found, the \*Linstall\*O
command issues a message telling you there was no match and exits
without taking further action.
.PP 
If any directories are specified on the command line, the \*Linstall\*O
command searches them before it searches the default directories.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP 
.AL 3m 
.LI
To replace a command that already exists in one of the default
directories, enter:
.iS
install  fixit
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This replaces the file \*Lfixit\*O if it is found in the \*L/bin\*O,
\*L/usr/bin\*O, \*L/etc\*O, \*L/lib\*O, or \*L/usr/lib\*O
directory.  Otherwise, the file \*Lfixit\*O is not installed.  For
example, if \*L/usr/bin/fixit\*O exists, then this file is
replaced by a copy of the file \*Lfixit\*O in the current directory.
.LI
To replace a command that already exists in a specified
or default directory, and to preserve the old version, enter:
.iS
install  -o  fixit  /etc  /usr/games
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This replaces the file \*Lfixit\*O if it is found in the \*L/etc\*O
or \*L/usr/games\*O directory, or in one of the default directories.
Otherwise, the file \*Lfixit\*O is not installed.  If the file is
replaced, the old version is preserved by renaming it \*LOLDfixit\*O
in the directory in which it was found.
.LI
To replace a command that already exists in a specified
directory, enter:
.iS
install  -i  fixit  /u/judith/bin  /u/bernice/bin  /usr/games
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This replaces the file \*Lfixit\*O if it is found in the
\*L/u/judith/bin\*O, \*L/u/bernice/bin\*O, or \*L/usr/games\*O directory.
Otherwise, the file is not installed.
.LI
To replace a command found in a default directory,
or install it in a specified directory if it is not found, enter:
.iS
install  -n  /usr/bin  fixit
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This replaces the file \*Lfixit\*O if it is found in one of
the default directories.  If the file is not found, it is installed
as \*L/usr/bin/fixit\*O.
.LI
To install a new command, enter:
.iS
install  -c  /usr/bin  fixit
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This creates a new command by installing a copy of the \*Lfixit\*O
file as \*L/usr/bin/fixit\*O, but only if this file does not already exist.
.LI
To install a command in a specified directory whether
or not it already exists, enter:
.iS
install  -f  /usr/bin  -o  -s  fixit
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This forces the \*Lfixit\*O file to be installed as \*L/usr/bin/fixit\*O
whether or not it already exists.  The old version, if any, is
preserved by moving it to \*L/usr/bin/OLDfixit\*O (a result of
the \*L-o\*O flag).  The messages that tell where the new command
was installed are suppressed (a result of the \*L-s\*O flag).
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands: \*Lchgrp\*O(1), \*Lchmod\*O(1), \*Lchown\*O(1), \*Lcp\*O(1),
\*Linstallbsd\*O(1), \*Lmake\*O(1), \*Lmv\*O(1), \*Lstrip\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
