.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: installbsd.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/13 15:28:35 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH installbsd 1
.SH NAME
\*Linstallbsd\*O \- Installs a command (BSD version)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Linstallbsd\*O
\*O[\*L-cs\*O]
\*O[\*L-g\*O
\*Vgroup\*O]
\*O[\*L-m\*O
\*Vmode\*O]
\*O[\*L-o\*O
\*Vowner\*O]
\*Vfile\*O
\*Vdestination\*O
.sE 
.PP
The \*Linstallbsd\*O command moves or copies a binary \*Vfile\*O to
the specified \*Vdestination\*O file or directory.  It is most often
used in makefiles.
.SH "FLAGS"
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Copies \*Vfile\*O to \*Vdestination\*O rather than moving it.
.LI "\*L-g\*O \*Vgroup\*O" 
Specifies a group for the \*Vdestination\*O file.  The default group is
\*Lstaff\*O.
.LI "\*L-m\*O \*Vmode\*O" 
Specifies the mode of the destination file.  The default mode is \*L755\*O.
.LI "\*L-o\*O \*Vowner\*O" 
Specifies the owner of the destination file.  The default owner
is \*Lroot\*O.
.LI "\*L-s\*O" 
Causes the binary \*Vfile\*O to be stripped after installation (see
\*Lstrip\*O).
.LE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
If \*Vdestination\*O is a file and such a file already exists,
\*Linstallbsd\*O removes it before \*Vfile\*O is moved or copied.  If
\*Vdestination\*O is a directory, \*Vfile\*O is moved or copied into that
directory with its original filename.  \*Linstallbsd\*O will not move a file
onto itself.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP 
To install a new command called \*Lfixit\*O, enter:
.iS
installbsd -c -o henry fixit /usr/bin
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This installs a new command by copying the program \*Lfixit\*O to
\*L/usr/bin/fixit\*O, with user \*Lhenry\*O as owner.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands: \*Lchgrp\*O(1), \*Lchmod\*O(1), \*Lchown\*O(1), \*Lcp\*O(1),
\*Linstall\*O(1), \*Lmake\*O(1), \*Lmv\*O(1), \*Lstrip\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
