.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: intro.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/22 18:25:29 $
.\"
.TH intro 1
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction to commands
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "intro(1) keyword"
Section 1 describes the commands available for all DEC OSF/1 users.
.\" Removed because it is no longer applicable
.\"The
.\"Section 1 DEC OSF/1 reference pages are
.\"made up of an OSF-supplied component
.\"and a Digital-supplied component.
.\"The title line of an OSF-supplied
.\"reference page carries an "OSF" label while the Digital-supplied
.\"reference pages are labeled "Digital".
.\".PP
.\"When OSF-supplied code operates differently on Digital platforms or
.\"has Digital extensions, information is added to the OSF reference page
.\"and marked as
.\".br
.\"\*L[Digital only]\*O.
.\".PP
.\"When needed, technical corrections have been made to the OSF-supplied
.\"reference pages.
.PP
The suffixes used on some reference pages are used only to allow reference
pages with the same base name to exist on DEC OSF/1 systems. When used,
suffixes are made up of one to four letters. See the \*Lman\*O(1)
reference page for more information on suffixes.
.PP
Commands related to system maintenance appear in Section 8.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.iX "diagnostics" "explained"
Upon termination, each command returns two bytes of status,
one supplied by the system giving the cause for
termination and, in the case of normal termination,
one supplied by the program.  For more information, see
\*Lexit\*O(2).
The former byte is 0 for normal termination; the latter
is customarily 0 for successful execution.
A nonzero status indicates a problem such as erroneous parameters,
or bad or inaccessible data.
The status is called variously exit code, exit status, or
return code, and is described only where
special conventions are involved.
.iX "exit status" "defined"
.iX "return code" "exit status"
.iX "exit code" "exit status"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lman\*O(1), \*Lexit\*O(2)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
