.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: invcutter.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/07/22 12:21:25 $
.\" 
.TH invcutter 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Linvcutter\*O \- generate a subset inventory file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/lbin/invcutter\*O
[ \*L\-d\*O ]
[ \*L\-f\*O \*Vroot-path\*O ]
[ \*L\-v\*O \*Vversion-code\*O ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "invcutter command"
.iX "software kits" "producing inventory records for"
The contents of a software product kit for the
\*Lsetld\*O(8)
command are specified by a master inventory file whose format is
described in the
\*Lstl_mi\*O(4)
reference page.  The
\*Linvcutter\*O
command processes a master inventory file by reading inventory records
from standard input and writing one record to standard output for each
record read.
.PP
The information contained in the output record is derived from the
input record and from the file attribute information in the file
hierarchy rooted in the current directory.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.TP 18
.B \-d
Enables debugging.  No useful diagnostics are printed.
.TP 18
.BI "\-f " root-path
Specifies an alternate root path for finding file attribute
information.
.TP 18
.BI "\-v " version-code
Specifies a 3-digit version code for use in the version field of the
output records.  The default version code is
\*V010\*O.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Input records must be sorted in ascending ASCII order on the pathname
field.
.PP
The
\*Linvcutter\*O
command cannot process input-specified files which exist as sockets in
the file hierarchy.
.PP
If an input-specified file has a link count greater than 1, all other
links to the file must be represented in the input.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following command generates inventory records for the master
inventory entries in
\*LPDS020.mi\*O.
Output records contain version fields set to
\*V020\*O:
.oS
invcutter -v 020 < PDS020.mi
.oE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
An exit status of 0 indicates success.  An exit status of 1 indicates
an error.  See ERRORS.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BI "cannot chdir to " "pathname " ( error-message )
.br
.RS 5
The program cannot set its working directory to the
\*Vpathname\*O
directory specified with the
.B \-f
flag.  The
\*Verror-message\*O
provides additional information.
.RE
.PP
.BI "sort error, record #" n
.br
.RS 5
The
\*Vn\*Oth
input record is not in the correct sort order.  All input records must
be in ascending ASCII collating sequence on the pathname field.
.RE
.PP
.BI "cannot stat " filename " (" error-message )
.br
.RS 5
An error has occurred attempting to read the attributes of
\*Vfilename\*O.
The
\*Verror-message\*O
explains exactly what happened.
.RE
.PP
.IB pathname ": illegal file type code 0140000"
.br
.RS 5
The file named by
\*Vpathname\*O
is a socket.  Sockets are not supported as valid file types for
distribution.
.RE
.PP
.BI "unresolved nlink " n ": pathname"
.br
.RS 5
File
\*Vpathname\*O
in the master inventory is linked to
\*Vn\*O
files which do not appear in the master inventory.  Check the inventory
for validity with the
\*Lnewinv\*O
program.
.RE
.PP
.IB n " unresolved hard links"
.br
.RS 5
This informational message states how many files with unresolved linls
were detected in the input inventory.
.RE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  newinv(1)
.PP
File formats:  
stl_inv(4), 
stl_mi(4)
.PP
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
