.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: iostat.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/13 14:17:44 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" 
.\" @(#)iostat.1      6.1 (Berkeley) 4/29/85
.\" 
.TH iostat 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Liostat\*O \- Reports I/O statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Liostat\*O
\*O[\*Vdrive\*O
\&...]
\*O[\*Vinterval\*O]
\*O[\*Vcount\*O]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "iostat command"
.iX "I/O statistics"
The \*Liostat\*O command reports the following information:
.ML
.LI
For terminals (collectively), the number of characters read and written
per second.
.LI
For each disk, the number of transfers per second, bytes transferred
per second (in kilobytes), and the milliseconds per average seek.
Not all disk drives report seek times.
.LI
For the system, the percentage of time the system
has spent in user mode, in user mode running low priority (\*Lnice\*O)
processes, in system mode, and idling.
.LE
.PP
To compute this information, \*Liostat\*O counts the number of seeks
and data transfer completions, the number of words transferred for
each disk, and the collective number of input and output characters
for terminals.
Also, each sixtieth of a second,
\*Liostat\*O examines the state of each disk and makes a tally if the
disk is active.  From these numbers and given the transfer rates
of the devices, it is possible to determine the average seek times for
each device.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
\*Vdrive...\*O
Forces \*Viostat\*O to display specific drives.  If \*Vdrive\*O
is not specified, \*Viostat\*O displays the first four drives
(even if more than four disk drives are configured in the
system).
.TP
\*Vinterval\*O
Causes \*Liostat\*O to report once each \*Vinterval\*O seconds.  The
first report is for all time since a reboot, and each subsequent report
is for the last interval only.
.TP
\*Vcount\*O
Specifies the number of reports.  For example, \*Liostat 1 10\*O
would produce 10 reports at 1-second intervals.  You cannot specify
\*Vcount\*O without \*Vinterval\*O because the first numeric
argument to \*Liostat\*O is assumed to be \*Vinterval\*O.
.IP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
If a disk drive is attached and configured but has
never been accessed, \*Liostat\*O displays the disk name as
\*Ldk\*Vn\*O, where \*Vn\*O is the drive number of the console name
for the drive. For example, if dka500 is the console name of the
never accessed disk, the name \*Liostat\*O uses is dk500.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The output from this example displays
cpu, terminal, and disk statistics
for the first four disks on the system providing 5 reports in
1 second intervals.
.oS
# iostat 1 5
      tty     rz1      rz2      rz3      rz4     cpu
 tin tout bps tps  bps tps  bps tps  bps tps  us ni sy id
   1   52   2   0    1   0   13   1    4   1   8  0  9 83
   1   16   7   1    2   0    5   2    2   0   3  0 10 87
   0    0   0   0    0   0    0   0    0   0   0  0  1 98
   2    2   2   1    0   0   50   6    0   0   9  0  9 82
   1  191   2   1    0   0   47   6    0   0   8  0  9 83
.oE
Note that this example does not show the average seek times (msps)
for the disk drives.  Not all disk drives report seek time.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lvmstat\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
