.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ipcrm.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/13 15:30:12 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH ipcrm 1
.SH NAME
\*Lipcrm\*O \- Removes message queue, semaphore set, or shared memory identifiers
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*Lipcrm\*O
\*O[\*L-m\*O
\*Vshared_memory\*O]
\*O[\*L-M\*O
\*Vshared_memory_key\*O]
\*O[\*L-q\*O
\*Vmessage_queue\*O]
.nL
\*O[\*L-Q\*O
\*Vmessage_key\*O]
\*O[\*L-s\*O
\*Vsemaphore_ID\*O]
\*O[\*L-S\*O
\*Vsemaphore_key\*O]
.in +.5i  
.sE 
.PP
The \*Lipcrm\*O command removes one or more message queue,
.gL "message queue"
.gL "semaphore set"
.gL "shared memory identifier"
semaphore set, or shared memory identifiers.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-m\*O \*Vshared_memory\*O"
Removes the shared memory identifier \*Vshared_memory\*O.
The shared memory segment and data structure associated with
\*Vshared_memory\*O are also removed after the last detach operation.
.LI "\*L-M\*O \*Vshared_memory_key\*O" 
Removes the shared memory identifier, created with key \*Vshared_memory_key\*O.
The shared memory segment and data structure associated with it are
also removed after the last detach.
.LI "\*L-q\*O \*Vmessage_queue\*O" 
Removes the message queue identifier \*Vmessage_queue\*O
and the message queue and data structure associated with it.
.LI "\*L-Q\*O \*Vmessage_key\*O" 
Removes the message queue identifier, created with key
\*Vmessage_key\*O, and the message queue
and data structure associated with it.
.LI "\*L-s\*O \*Vsemaphore_ID\*O" 
Removes the semaphore identifier \*Vsemaphore_ID\*O and the set of
semaphores and data structure associated with it.
.LI "\*L-S\*O \*Vsemaphore_key\*O" 
Removes the semaphore identifier, created with key
\*Vsemaphore_key\*O, and the set of semaphores and data structure
associated with it.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "removing" "message queue"
.iX "removing" "semaphore set"
.iX "removing" "shared memory ID"
.iX "messages" "queue removal"
.iX "semaphore set"
.iX "shared memory"
.iX "ipcrm command"
.PP 
The details of the remove operations are described in the Section 2
reference pages for \*Lmsgctl()\*O, \*Lshmctl()\*O, 
and \*Lsemctl()\*O.
The identifiers and keys can be found by using the \*Lipcs\*O command.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
To remove the shared memory segment associated with shared memory
.gL "shared memory segment"
identifier \*L18602\*O, enter:
.iS
ipcrm -m 18602
\*O\c
.iE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lipcs\*O(1).
.PP 
Functions:  \*Lmsgctl\*O(2), \*Lmsgget\*O(2),
\*Lsemctl\*O(2), \*Lsemget\*O(2), \*Lsemop\*O(2), \*Lshmctl\*O(2),
\*Lshmget\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
