.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ipcs.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.7.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 21:29:18 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.TH ipcs 1
.SH NAME
\*Lipcs\*O \- Reports Interprocess Communication (IPC) facility status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lipcs\*O
\*O[\*L\-a\*O
|
\*L\-bcopt\*O]
\*O[\*L\-mqs\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lipcs\*O command writes to the standard output information
about active Interprocess Communication (IPC) facilities.
.gL "interprocess communication facilities"
.gL "shared memory segment"
.gL "message queue"
.gL "semaphore set"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "ipcs command"
.iX "reporting" "interprocess communication status"
.iX "interprocess communication status" "reporting"
.iX "status" "interprocess communication"
.iX "communication" "interprocess"
.PP
If you do not specify any flags, \*Lipcs\*O writes information in a short form
about currently active message queues, shared memory segments,
semaphores, remote queues, and local queue headers.
.SS "Column Headings"
The column headings and the meaning of the columns in an
\*Lipcs\*O listing follow.  The letters in parentheses indicate the
flags that cause the corresponding heading to appear.  \*Lall\*O
means that the heading always appears.  These flags only determine what
information is provided for each facility.  They do not determine which
facilities are listed.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LT\*O (\*Lall\*O)"
Type of facility:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lq\*O"
Message queue.
.LI "\*Lm\*O"
Shared memory segment.
.LI "\*Ls\*O"
Semaphore.
.LE
.LI "\*LID\*O (\*Lall\*O)"
The identifier for the facility entry.
.LI "\*LKEY\*O (\*Lall\*O)"
The key used as a parameter to the \*Lmsgget()\*O,
\*Lsemget()\*O or \*Lshemget()\*O system calls
to make the facility entry.
.sp 0.4v
Note that the key of a shared memory segment is changed to
\*LIPC\(ulPRIVATE\*O when the segment is removed until all
processes attached to the segment detach it.
.LI "\*LMODE\*O (\*Lall\*O)"
The facility access modes and flags.
The mode consists of 11 characters that are interpreted as follows:
.sp 0.4v
The first two characters can be:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LR\*O"
If a process is waiting on a \*Lmsgrcv()\*O system call.
.LI "\*LS\*O"
If a process is waiting on a \*Lmsgsnd()\*O system call.
.LI "\*LD\*O"
If the associated shared memory segment was removed.
It disappears when the last process attached to the segment detaches it.
.LI "\*LC\*O"
If the associated shared memory segment is to be cleared when the
first attach is run.
.LI "\*L\-\*O"
If the corresponding special flag is not set.
.LE
.sp 0.4v
The next nine characters are interpreted as three sets of 3 bits
each.  The first set refers to the owner's permissions; the next to
permissions of others in the user group of the facility entry; and the
last to all others.  Within each set, the first character indicates
permission to read, the second character indicates permission to write
or alter the facility entry, and the last character is currently unused.
.sp 0.4v
The permissions are indicated as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lr\*O"
Read permission is granted.
.LI "\*Lw\*O"
Write permission is granted.
.LI "\*La\*O"
Alter permission is granted.
.LI "\*L\-\*O"
The indicated permission is not granted.
.LE
.LI "\*LOWNER\*O (\*Lall\*O)"
The username of the owner of the facility entry.
.LI "\*LGROUP\*O (\*Lall\*O)"
The name of the group that owns the facility entry.
.LI "\*LCREATOR\*O (\*La\*O,\*Lc\*O)"
The username of the creator of the facility entry.
.LI "\*LCGROUP\*O (\*La\*O,\*Lc\*O)"
The group name of the group of the
creator of the facility entry.
.sp 0.4v
Note that for the \*LOWNER\*O, \*LGROUP\*O,
\*LCREATOR\*O, and \*LCGROUP\*O, the user and group IDs
display instead of the usernames.
.LI "\*LCBYTES\*O (\*La\*O,\*Lo\*O)"
The number of bytes in messages
currently outstanding on the associated message queue.
.LI "\*LQNUM\*O (\*La\*O,\*Lo\*O)"
The number of messages currently
outstanding on the associated message queue.
.LI "\*LQBYTES\*O (\*La\*O,\*Lb\*O)"
The maximum number of bytes
allowed in messages outstanding on the associated message
queue.
.LI "\*LLSPID\*O (\*La\*O,\*Lp\*O)"
The ID of the last process that sent a
message to the associated queue.
.LI "\*LLRPID\*O (\*La\*O,\*Lp\*O)"
The ID of the last process that received
a message from the associated queue.
.LI "\*LSTIME\*O (\*La\*O,\*Lt\*O)"
The time when the last
message was sent to the associated queue.
.LI "\*LRTIME\*O (\*La\*O,\*Lt\*O)"
The time when the last message was
received from the associated queue.
.LI "\*LCTIME\*O (\*La\*O,\*Lt\*O)"
The time when the associated entry was
created or changed.
.LI "\*LNATTCH\*O (\*La\*O,\*Lo\*O)"
The number of processes attached to the
associated shared memory segment.
.LI "\*LSEGSZ\*O (\*La\*O,\*Lb\*O)"
The size of the associated shared memory
segment.
.LI "\*LCPID\*O (\*La\*O,\*Lp\*O)"
The process ID of the creator of the
shared memory entry.
.LI "\*LLPID\*O (\*La\*O,\*Lp\*O)"
The process ID of the last process to
attach or detach the shared memory segment.
.LI "\*LATIME\*O (\*La\*O,\*Lt\*O)"
The time when the last attach was
completed to the associated shared memory segment.
.LI "\*LDTIME\*O (\*La\*O,\*Lt\*O)"
The time the last detach was completed
on the associated shared memory segment.
.LI "\*LNSEMS\*O (\*La\*O,\*Lb\*O)"
The number of semaphores in the set
associated with the semaphore entry.
.LI "\*LOTIME\*O (\*La\*O,\*Lt\*O)"
The time the last semaphore operation
was completed on the set associated with the semaphore entry.
.LE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-a\*O"
Same as specifying the \*L\-b\*O, \*L\-c\*O, \*L\-o\*O, \*L\-p\*O
and \*L\-t\*O flags.
.LI "\*L\-b\*O"
Writes the maximum number of bytes in message queues,
the size of segments for shared memory, and the number
of semaphores in each semaphores set.
.LI "\*L\-c\*O"
Writes the username and group name of the user that made the
facility.
.LI "\*L\-m\*O"
Writes information about active shared memory segments.
.LI "\*L\-o\*O"
Writes the following usage information:
.ML
.LI
Number of messages on queue.
.LI
Total number of bytes in message queues.
.LI
Number of processes attached to shared memory segments.
.LE
.LI "\*L\-p\*O"
Writes the following:
.ML
.LI
Process number of the last process to receive a message on message queues.
.LI
Process number of the creating process.
.LI
Process number of last process to
attach or detach on shared memory segments.
.LE
.LI "\*L\-q\*O"
Writes information about active message queues.
.LI "\*L\-s\*O"
Writes information about active semaphore set.
.LI "\*L\-t\*O"
Writes the following:
.ML
.LI
Time of the last control operation that changed the access
permissions for all facilities.
.LI
Time of the last \*Lmsgsnd()\*O and last \*Lmsgrcv()\*O on
message queues.
.LI
Time of the last \*Lshmat()\*O and last \*Lshmdt()\*O on shared memory.
.LI
Time of the last \*Lsemop()\*O on semaphore sets.
.LE
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Sample output from entering \*Lipcs\*O without flags follows:
.oS
CT	ID	KEY		MODE		OWNER		GROUP

Message Queues:

T	ID	KEY		MODE		OWNER		GROUP

q	    0	0x00010381	-Rrw-rw-rw-	root		system
q	65537	0x00010307	-Rrw-rw-rw-	root		system
q	65538	0x00010311	-Rrw-rw-rw-	root		system
q	65539	0x0001032f	-Rrw-rw-rw-	root		system
q	65540	0x0001031b	-Rrw-rw-rw-	root		system
q	65541	0x00010339	--rw-rw-rw-	root		system
q	    6	0x0002fe03	-Rrw-rw-rw-	root		system

Shared memory:

T	ID	KEY		MODE		OWNER		GROUP

m	65537	0x00000000	DCrw-------	root		system
m	720898	0x00010300	-Crw-rw-rw-	root		system
m	65539	0x00000000	DCrw-------	root		system

Semaphores:

T	ID	KEY		MODE		OWNER		GROUP

s	131072	0x4d02086a	--ra-ra----	root		system
s	65537	0x00000000	--ra-------	root		system
s	131076	0x00010301	--ra-ra-ra-	root		system
\*O\c
.oE
.PP
(Output may be formatted differently on your system.)
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 7m
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O"
Contains user information.
.LI "\*L/etc/group\*O"
Contains group information.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lipcrm\*O(1).
.PP
Functions: \*Lmsgrcv\*O(2), \*Lmsgsnd\*O(2), \*Lsemop\*O(2),
\*Lshmat\*O(2), \*Lshmdt\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
