.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: kill.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.7.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 21:30:39 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.TH kill 1
.SH NAME
\*Lkill\*O \- Sends a signal to a running process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lkill \-l\*O
.PP
\*Lkill\*O
\*O[\*L\-\*Vsignal_name\*O
|
\*L\-\*Vsignal_number\*O]
\*Vprocess_ID\*O
\&.\&.\&.
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.\" The following command syntaxes do not work (per QARs 7730 and 8414) and
.\" were removed from SYNOPSIS section:
.\"
.\" \*Lkill \-l\*O
.\" \*O[\*Vexit_status\*O]
.\"
.\" \*Lkill \-s\*O
.\" \*Vsignal_name\*O \*Vprocess_ID\*O
.\" \&.\&.\&.
.\"
.\" End Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.iX "kill command"
.iX "terminating" "processes"
.iX "suspending" "processes"
.iX "sending" "signals to processes"
.iX "processes" "suspending"
.iX "processes" "terminating"
.iX "processes" "sending signals to"
The \*Lkill\*O command sends a signal to one or more
running processes.  The default is
the \*LSIGTERM\*O signal (signal number \*L15\*O), which
usually terminates processes that do not ignore or catch the signal.
.PP
You identify the process to be signaled by specifying its
process identification number (also known as the process ID or PID).
The shell displays the PID of each process that is running in the
background or, if you start more than one process in a pipeline,
the shell displays the number of the last process).
You can also use the \*Lps\*O command to display PIDs.
.iX "PID"
.iX "processes" "ID number"
.iX "identifiers" "processes"
.PP
The name of the \*Lkill\*O command is misleading because many
signals, including \*LSIGUSR1\*O, do not terminate processes.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.\" This does not work:
.\" .PP 
.\" Specify the signal to send with \*L\-s \*Vsignal_name\*O.
.\" In particular, \*LSIGKILL\*O (specified as \*L\-s KILL\*O) 
.\" terminates all running processes, including those not terminated 
.\" by the default \*LSIGTERM\*O.  Note that all numeric signal
.\" specifications except for 0 (zero) are obsolescent.  
.\"
.PP
Unless you are operating with superuser authority, the process
you wish to signal must belong to you.
When operating with superuser authority, you can signal any process.
.PP
See the \*Lkill()\*O system call for a complete discussion of \*Lkill\*O.
Note that the \*Lcsh\*O command contains a built-in subcommand named
\*Lkill\*O, but the command and subcommand do not necessarily work in the
same way.  For information on the subcommand, see \*Lcsh\*O.
.SS "Special Process Identification Numbers"
There are several special process identification numbers (PIDs) that
you can specify to cause the following special actions:
.VL 3m
.LI "\*L0\*O"
The signal is sent to all processes having a process group ID equal to the
process group ID of the sender, except those with PIDs 0 and 1.
.LI "\*L\-1\*O"
If the effective user ID of the sender is not 0 (root),
the signal is sent to all processes with a process group ID equal
to the effective user ID of the sender, except those with PIDs 0 and 1.
.sp
If the effective user ID of the sender is 0 (root), the signal
is sent to all processes, excluding numbers 0 and 1.
.LI "\*L\-\*VPID\*O"
The signal is sent to all processes whose process group
number is equal to the absolute value of \*VPID\*O.
Note that when you specify any negative PID, you must also specify
the signal to be sent, even the default signal \*LSIGTERM\*O.
.LE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
The \*Lkill\*O command supports the following flags:
.VL
.LI "\*L\-l\*O"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.\" This does not work:
.\" .LI "\*L\-l" [\*Vexit_status\*O]" 
.\" End Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.\"
Lists signal names.
.\" 
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.\" If you specify an exit status (a numeric value)
.\" or the shell special parameter \*L$?\*O, which expands to
.\" the exit status of the most recent pipeline,
.\" \*Lkill\*O prints the name of the terminating signal.
.\" 
.\" .LI "\*L\-s\*O \*Vsignal_name\*O"
.\" Specifies the signal to send, using one of the symbolic names
.\" defined for required signals or job control signals.  Values of
.\" \*Vsignal_name\*O are recognized in both uppercase or lowercase letters,
.\" and without the \*LSIG\*O prefix.  The symbolic name \*L0\*O (zero),
.\" which represents the value 0 (zero), is also recognized.  The
.\" corresponding signal is sent instead of \*LSIGTERM\*O.
.\" End Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.LI "\*L\-\*Vsignal_name\*O  \*L|  \-\*Vsignal_number\*O"
Specifies the signal to send to the process.  You can specify either
a name, stripped of the \*LSIG\*O prefix (such as \*LKILL\*O),
or a number (such as \*L9\*O).  For information about signal
names and numbers, see the \*Lsigaction()\*O system call.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following command terminates the process with the specified PID:
.iS
kill 1095
\*O\c
.iE
This command
terminates process \*L1095\*O by sending it the default \*LSIGTERM\*O
signal.  Note that process \*L1095\*O might not actually terminate if it
has made special arrangements to ignore or catch the \*LSIGTERM\*O signal.
.PP
The following command terminates several processes that ignore the
default signal:
.iS
kill \-KILL 17285 15692
\*O\c
.iE
This command sends \*LSIGKILL\*O to processes \*L17285\*O and \*L15692\*O.
The \*LSIGKILL\*O signal usually cannot be ignored or caught.
.PP
The following command terminates all of your background processes:
.iS
kill 0
\*O\c
.iE
This command
sends the \*LSIGTERM\*O signal to all members of the shell process group.
This includes all background processes started with \*L&\*O.
Although the signal is sent to the shell, it has no effect because the
shell ignores the default signal \*L15\*O.
.PP
The following command terminates all of your processes and logs yourself out:
.iS
kill \-KILL 0
\*O\c
.iE
This command sends \*LSIGKILL\*O to all members of the shell process
group.  Because the shell cannot ignore \*LSIGKILL\*O,
this also terminates the login shell and logs you out.
If you are using multiple windows, this closes the active window.
.PP
The following command terminate all the processes that you own:
.iS
kill \-KILL \-1
\*O\c
.iE
This command sends \*LSIGKILL\*O to all the processes that you own,
even those that belong
to other process groups.  If you are using multiple windows, this
command closes all the windows.
.PP
The following command sends a specific signal to a specific process:
.iS
kill \-USR1 1103
\*O\c
.iE
This command
sends the \*LSIGUSR1\*O signal to process \*L1103\*O.  The action taken
on the \*LSIGUSR1\*O signal is defined by the particular application you are
running.
.PP
The following command lists the signal names in numerical order,
stripped of the \*LSIG\*O prefix:
.iS
kill \-l
\*O\c
.iE
.oS
HUP INT QUIT ILL TRAP ABRT EMT FPE KILL BUS SEGV SYS PIPE
ALRM TERM URG STOP TSTP CONT CHLD TTIN TTOU IO XCPU XFSZ
VTALRM PROF WINCH INFO USR1 USR2
\*O\c
.oE
The command output can vary from system to system.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/include/signal.h\*O"
Specifies signal names.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcsh\*O(1), \*Lkillall\*O(8), \*Lksh\*O(1),
\*Lps\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1).
.PP
Functions: \*Lkill\*O(2), \*Lsigaction\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
