.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: kits.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/12/10 09:24:55 $
.\"
.TH kits 1
.SH NAME
\*Lkits\*O \- generate setld format distribution kits
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/bin/kits\*O \*Vkey-file\*O \*Vinput-path\*O \*Voutput-path\*O
[ \*Vsubset...\*O ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "setld" "format distribution kits"
.iX "kits" "setld format distribution kits"
The
\*Lkits\*O
command produces subset images, inventories, and control files for an
installation using the
\*Lsetld\*O
command.  You need to know the key file which describes the product to
be built, a hierarchy from which the component files to be kitted are
to be taken, and a destination directory into which the kit information
is to be placed.
.PP
In the
\*Voutput-path\*O
directory, the
\*Lkits\*O
command produces a subset image file for each subset and a
\*Vproduct_code\*O.\*Limage\*O
file listing all the kit's subsets.  In the
\*Vinstctrl\*O
subdirectory of
\*Voutput-path,\*O
\*Lkits\*O
produces an inventory file and a control file.  The optional subset
control program for any subset in the kit is transferred to
\*Voutput-path\*O\*L/instctrl\*O.
An
\*Vinstctrl\*O
directory is created if none existed.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 15
\*Vkey-file\*O
The path name of the manufacturing key file which describes the product
to be kitted.  Unless optional
\*Vsubset\*O
arguments are specified, all subsets listed in the descriptor section
of the
\*Vkey-file\*O
are kitted.
.TP
\*Vinput-path\*O
The path name which specifies the top of a hierarchy of files.  This
hierarchy contains the files which are to be kitted into subsets.
.TP
\*Voutput-path\*O
The name of the directory to be used to store the subset image and data
files produced by the command.
.TP
\*Vsubset...\*O
The names of individual subsets can be specified by optionally listing
them on the command line.  If they are specified, only those subsets
are kitted.  The
\*Lkits\*O
program assumes that all other subsets for the product have been kitted
and that their images are in the directory specified by
\*Voutput-path\*O.
The key file specified must contain descriptors for each of the
optional named subsets.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Any subset control programs to be provided with the kit must be located
in a directory named
\*Vscps\*O
in the working directory where the
\*Lkits\*O
program is invoked.  If no subset control program is found for a subset,
an empty one is created.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example shows the command used to produce a kit using key
file
\*VULT400.k\*O
in the current directory to package files from the hierarchy
\*V/var/kits/input\*O
and place the results in
\*V/var/kits/output.\*O
.oS
kits OAT100.k /var/kits/input /var/kits/output
.oE
The next example shows the same usage, but specifies that only the
OATDCB100 subset is to be created.
.oS
kits OAT100.k /var/kits/input /var/kits/output OATDCB100
.oE
.SH ERRORS
.PP
\*Lkits:\*O \*Vkey-file\*O \*Lnot found\*O
.RS 5
.br
The
\*Lkits\*O
program was unable to find the
\*Vkey-file\*O
specified on the command line.
.RE
.PP
\*Lkits:\*O \*Vinput-path\*O \*Lnot found\*O
.br
.RS 5
The
\*Lkits\*O
program was unable to find the specified
\*Vinput-path\*O.
.RE
.PP
\*Lkits:\*O \*Voutput-path\*O \*Lnot found\*O
.br
.RS 5
The
\*Lkits\*O
program was unable to find the  specified
\*Voutput-path\*O.
.RE
.PP
.B kits: cannot create instctrl directory.
.br
.RS 5
The
\*Lkits\*O
program cannot create an
\*Linstctrl\*O
directory under
\*Voutput-path\*O.
Check that the user has write permission to
\*Voutput-path\*O.
.RE
.PP
\*Lkits:\*O \*Vkey-file\*O \*Lformat error\*O
.br
.RS 5
One of the NAME, CODE, VERS, MI or ROOT values in the specified
\*Vkey-file\*O
is either missing or has a null value.
.RE
.PP
\*LInventory file\*O \*Vpathname\*O \*Lnot found\*O
.br
.RS 5
The master inventory file
\*Vpathname\*O
specified in the MI entry of the
\*Vkey-file\*O
cannot be found.  Verify that the
\*Vpathname\*O
is accessible from the current directory.
.RE
.PP
\*LGenerating media creation information...failed.\*O
.br
.RS 5
There are no records in the master inventory file for a subset which is
being kitted.  Check the master inventory file for correctness of
content and format.
.RE
.PP
\*LNo such subset in\*O \*Vkey-file\*O \*Lsubset\*O \*Vsubset\*O
.br
.RS 5
A subset name specified on the command line does not have a descriptor
line in the
\*Vkey-file\*O.
Check the spelling of the subset name on the command line.  Check the
contents of the
\*Vkey-file\*O.
.RE
.PP
\*Lcompression failed. status =\*O \*Vstatus\*O
.br
.RS 5
The compression option was specified in the
\*Vkey-file\*O
and an attempt to compress a subset failed.  This should not happen.
Run the
\*Lkits\*O
program again.
.RE
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
\*Lstderr\*O
Log of subset packaging activity
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Linvcutter\*O(1), \*Ltarsets\*O(1), \*Lsetld\*O(8)
.PP
File formats:
\*Lstl_comp\*O(4),
\*Lstl_ctrl\*O(4),
\*Lstl_image\*O(4),
\*Lstl_key\*O(4),
\*Lstl_mi\*O(4),
\*Lstl_scp\*O(4)
.PP
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
