.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: learn.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/13 15:32:40 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH learn 1
.SH NAME
\*Llearn\*O \- Provides computer-aided instruction for the C shell
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Llearn\*O
\*O[\*L-\*Vdirectory\*O]
\*O[\*Vsubject\*O]
\*O[\*Vlesson\*O]
.sE 
.PP
The \*Llearn\*O command provides computer-aided instruction courses and
practice in the use of OSF/1.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 7m
.LI "\*L-\*Vdirectory\*O"
Allows you to exercise a script in a nonstandard place.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "learn command"
.iX "computer-aided instruction"
.PP 
To get started, enter \*Llearn\*O; if this
is the first time that you are invoking the \*Llearn\*O command,
you are guided through a series of questions to determine what type of
instruction you want to receive.
.PP 
If you have used \*Llearn\*O
before and left your last session without completing a subject,
the program uses information in \*L$HOME/.learnrc\*O to start you up
in the same place you left off.
.PP 
To bypass questions, enter a subject or lesson.  In
order to enter a lesson, you must know the lesson number that
you received in a previous \*Llearn\*O command session.
If you do not know the lesson number,
enter the lesson number as a subject.  The \*Llearn\*O command
searches for the first lesson containing the subject you specified.
If the lesson is a \*L-\*O (dash), \*Llearn\*O
prompts for each lesson; this is useful for debugging.
.PP 
You can specify the following subjects:
.iS
files
editor
vi
morefiles
macros
eqn
C
\*O\c
.iE
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.PP 
There are a few special commands.  The \*Lbye\*O command terminates a
\*Llearn\*O session, and the \*Lwhere\*O command tells you of your progress
(\*Lwhere m\*O tells you more.)
The \*Lagain\*O command redisplays the text of the lesson
and \*Lagain\*O \*Vlesson\*O lets you review \*Vlesson\*O.
The \*Lhint\*O command prints the last part of the lesson script
used to evaluate a response, while \*Lhint m\*O prints the
entire lesson script.  This is useful for debugging
lessons and might possibly give you an idea about what is expected.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
To take the online lesson about files, enter:
.iS
learn files
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
You are then prompted for further input.
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/var/tmp/pl**\*O"
Playpen directories.
.LI "\*L$HOME/.learnrc\*O" 
Start-up information.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lcsh\*O(1), \*Lex\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
