.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: leave.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/25 20:37:02 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH leave 1
.SH NAME
\*Lleave\*O \- Reminds you when to leave
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lleave\*O
\*O[\*L+\*O][\*Vhhmm\*O]
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "leave command"
.PP 
The \*Lleave\*O command
waits until the specified time, then reminds you to leave.
You are reminded 5 minutes and 1 minute before the actual
time, at the time, and every minute thereafter.
When you log out, \*Lleave\*O exits just before it would have
displayed the next message.
.PP 
The time of day is in the form \*Vhhmm\*O, where \*Vhh\*O is a time in
hours (on a 12- or 24- hour clock).
All times are converted to a 12-hour clock, and assumed to
be in the next 12 hours.
.PP 
If the time is preceded by a \*L\(pl\*O (plus sign),
the alarm will go off in hours and minutes from the current time.
.PP 
If you do not specify a time, \*Lleave\*O
prompts with the following:
.oS
When do you have to leave?
.oE
.PP
Pressing the
newline key in response causes \*Lleave\*O to exit;
otherwise, the reply is assumed to be a time.
This form is suitable for inclusion in a \*L\&.login\*O
or \*L\&.profile\*O file.
.PP 
The \*Lleave\*O command ignores Interrupts, Quits, and Terminates.
To exit from \*Lleave\*O, either log out or use \*Lkill -9\*O
and the process ID.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
To remind yourself to leave at 3:45, enter:
.iS
leave 345
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The system returns a message similar to the following:
.iS
Alarm set for Thu Aug 2 15:45:00 1990
\*O\c
.iE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lcalendar\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
