.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: line.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/19 14:28:51 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH line 1
.SH NAME
\*Lline\*O \- Reads one line from standard input
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lline\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "line command"
.iX "reading" "from standard input"
.iX "standard input" "reading from"
.PP
The \*Lline\*O command copies one line from standard input and
writes it to standard output.
Use this command within a shell command file to read from your terminal.
The \*Lline\*O command always writes at least a newline character.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To read a line from the keyboard and append it to a file, enter:
.iS
echo 'Enter comments for the log:'
echo ': \ec'
line >>log
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This shell procedure displays the message:
.oS
Enter comments for the log:
\*O\c
.oE
.PP
It then reads a line of text from the keyboard and adds it
to the end of the file \*Llog\*O.  The \*Lecho ': \ec'\*O
command displays a \*L:\*O (colon) prompt.  See the \*Lecho\*O command
for information about the \*L\ec\*O escape sequence.
.SH "EXIT VALUES"
.PP
The \*Lline\*O command returns an exit value of 1 on an
End-of-File; otherwise, it returns a value of 0 (zero).
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Lline\*O utility has no internationalization features and is
considered obsolete. Use the \*Lread\*O utility instead.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lecho\*O(1), \*Lksh\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1).
.PP
Functions:  \*Lread\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
