.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: link.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.7.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 21:33:18 $
.\"
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.3
.\"build rmifdef
.TH link 1
.SH NAME
\*Llink\*O, \*Lunlink\*O \- Creates an additional directory entry for an existing file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Llink\*O
\*Vfile1\*O
\*Vfile2\*O
.PP
\*Lunlink\*O
\*Vfile\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "link command"
.iX "unlink command"
.iX "files" "linking"
.iX "files" "unlinking"
.PP
The \*Llink\*O command performs the \*Llink()\*O system call to create an
additional directory entry for an existing file, \*Vfile1\*O.  In effect,
the underlying file then has two names, \*Vfile1\*O and \*Vfile2\*O (either of
these arguments can be a pathname).  The old and
new entries share equal access rights to the underlying file.
.PP
The \*Lunlink\*O command performs the \*Lunlink()\*O system call
to remove a link to
\*Vfile\*O created by \*Llink\*O. The \*Lunlink\*O command removes the
directory entry specified by the \*Vfile\*O parameter and, if the entry
is a hard link, decrements the link count of the file referenced by the
link.
.PP
You should be familiar with the
\*Llink()\*O and \*Lunlink()\*O system calls before you use these commands.
.PP
The \*Llink\*O and \*Lunlink\*O commands
do not issue error messages when the associated
system call is unsuccessful.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Llink\*O and \*Lunlink\*O commands
cannot be used to link and unlink directories.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Llink\*O command
returns \*L0\*O if the \*Llink()\*O system call succeeds,
\*L1\*O if you specify too few or too many arguments, and \*L2\*O if
the system call fails.
.PP
The \*Lunlink\*O command always returns \*L0\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lfsck\*O(8), \*Lln\*O(1).
.PP
Functions: \*Llink\*O(2), \*Lunlink\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
