.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ln.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/06 19:54:40 $
.\"
.TH ln 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lln\*O \- link to a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Lln\*O [\*L\-f\*O] [\*L\-s\*O] \*Vsourcename\*O [\*Vtargetname\*O]
.br
\*Lln\*O
[\*L\-f\*O] [\*L\-s\*O] \*Vsourcename ... targetdirectory\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ln command"
.iX "link" "creating"
A link is a directory entry that refers to a file.
.iX "link" "defined"
A file, together with
its size and all its protection
information can have several links to it.
There are two kinds of links: hard links and symbolic links.
.PP
By default \*Lln\*O makes hard links.
A hard link to a file is indistinguishable from the
original directory entry.
.iX "hard link" "defined"
Changes to either file affect both files.
Hard links cannot span file systems and cannot refer to directories.
.PP
A symbolic link contains the name of the file to which it is linked.
The referenced file is used when an \*Lopen\*O(2) operation is performed
on the link.
.iX "symbolic link"
A \*Lstat\*O(2)
on a symbolic link returns the linked-to file.
An \*Llstat\*O(2)
must be done to obtain information about the link.
The \*Lreadlink\*O(2)
call can be used to read the contents of a symbolic link.
Symbolic links can span file systems and can refer to directories.
.PP
Given one or two arguments, \*Lln\*O
creates a link to an existing \*Vsourcename\*O file.
If \*Vtargetname\*O
is given, the link has that name.
The \*Vtargetname\*O
can also be a directory in which to place the link;
otherwise, it is placed in the current directory.
If only the directory is specified, the link is made
to the last component of the \*Vsourcename\*O file.
.PP
Given more than two arguments, \*Lln\*O
makes links to all the specified files (\*Vsourcename\*O)
in the specified directory (\*Vtargetdirectory\*O).
The links made have the same name as the files to which they are being
linked.
.SS "SVID Conformance"
.\" ***THE FOLLOWING PARAGRAPH IS NO LONGER PERTINENT***
.\" The root of the directory tree that contains the commands modified
.\" for SVID-2 compliance is specified in the file \*L/etc/s5path\*O. You
.\" can use \*L/etc/s5profile\*O as the basis for, or to include
.\" in, your \*L.profile\*O.  The file \*L/etc/s5profile\*O reads 
.\" \*L/etc/s5path\*O and
.\" sets the first entries in the \*LPATH\*O environment variable so that
.\" the modified SVID-2 commands are found first.
For the operating system, the behavior of \*Lln\*O was modified to bring it into
conformance with SVID-2 and XPG standards.
The behavior described here applies both by default and for the SVID-2
habitat.
.PP
The \*Lln\*O command includes the \*L-f\*O option.
If the target filename exists, is not a directory, and does not have
write permission, three possible conditions can exist, with each
condition producing a different behavior:
.ML
.LI
If \*Lln\*O is not being run interactively, the command attempts to
silently unlink the target file and link the source file to it.
.LI
If \*Lln\*O is being run interactively and the command line does not include
the \*L-f\*O option, the command prompts the user for
permission to unlink the target file.  The command compares the
user response to the system defined values for \*LYESSTR\*O and
\*LNOSTR\*O. If the user response matches the value for \*LYESSTR\*O,
the command attempts to unlink the target file and link the source
file to it.  If the user response matches \*LNOSTR\*O, the command
aborts.
.LI
If \*Lln\*O is being run interactively and the command line includes
the \*L-f\*O option, the command attempts to silently unlink the
target file and link the source file to it.
.LE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.iX "ln command" "options"
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-f\*O"
Forces the removal of existing target pathnames before linking.
.LI "\*L\-s\*O"
Creates symbolic links.
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
You cannot link files across file systems without using the \*L-s\*O flag.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.\" .AL 3m
.LI
The following example creates a link (also called an \*Valias\*O) to a file:
.iS
ln  chap1  intro
\*O\c
.iE
.sp
The previous command links \*Lchap1\*O to the \*Lintro\*O file.
If \*Lintro\*O does not already exist, the filename is created.
If \*Lintro\*O does exist and permissions allow, the file is
replaced by a link to \*Lchap1\*O.  The following command forces the link
even if \*Lintro\*O
exists and permissions do not allow it to be overwritten:
.iS
ln -f chap1 intro
\*O\c
.iE
.sp
The previous command causes \*Lchap1\*O and \*Lintro\*O to refer
to the same file.  Any changes made to one file also appear in the other
file.
If one name is deleted with the \*Lrm\*O command, the file is
not actually deleted because it remains under the other name.
.LI
The following command links a file to the same name in an existing directory:
.iS
ln index manual
\*O\c
.iE
.sp
The previous command links \*Lindex\*O to the new name \*Lmanual/index\*O.
.LI
The following command links several files to names in another directory:
.iS
ln  chap2  jim/chap3  /u/manual
\*O\c
.iE
.sp
The previous command links \*Lchap2\*O to the new name
\*L/u/manual/chap2\*O and links \*Ljim/chap3\*O to
\*L/u/manual/chap3\*O.
.LI
The following command uses \*Lln\*O with pattern-matching characters:
.iS
ln  manual/*  .
\*O\c
.iE
.sp
The previous command links all files in the directory \*Lmanual\*O into the
current directory (\*L\&.\*O), giving them the same names they have
in \*Lmanual\*O.
Note that you must type a space between the \*L*\*O (asterisk)
and the \*L\&.\*O (dot).
.LI
The following command creates a link to the final component of a
pathname:
.iS
ln -s /a/b/c/d/e
.iE
.sp
This creates a link, \*Le\*O, in the current directory to the
file \*L/a/b/c/d/e\*O.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcp\*O(1), \*Lmv\*O(1), \*Lrm\*O(1).
.PP
Functions:  \*Lchmod\*O(2), \*Llink\*O(2), \*Lreadlink\*O(2),
\*Lsymlink\*O(2), \*Lunlink\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
