.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.TH lndir 1X "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
lndir \- create a shadow directory of symbolic links to another directory tree
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lndir
fromdir [todir]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Lndir
makes a shadow copy 
.I todir 
of a directory tree
.I fromdir, 
except that the shadow is not
populated with real files but instead with symbolic links pointing at
the real files in the 
.I fromdir
directory tree.  This is usually useful for maintaining source code for
different machine architectures.  You create a shadow directory
containing links to the real source which you will have usually NFS
mounted from a machine of a different architecture, and then recompile
it.  The object files will be in the shadow directory, while the
source files in the shadow directory are just symlinks to the real
files.
.PP
This has the advantage that if you update the source, you need not 
propagate the change to the other architectures by hand, since all
source in shadow directories are symlinks to the real thing: just move
to the shadow directory and recompile.
.PP
The
.I todir
argument is optional and defaults to the current directory.  The
.I fromdir
argument may be relative (e.g., ../src) and is relative to
.I todir
(not the current directory).
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Note that RCS and SCCS directories are not shadowed.
.PP
Note also that if you add files, you must run
.I lndir
again.  Deleting files is difficult because the symlinks will
point to things that no longer exist.
.SH BUGS
The
.I patch
routine needs to be able to change the files.  Do not run
.I patch
from a shadow directory.
.PP
Use a command like the following
to clear out all files before you can relink (if the \f2fromdir\f1 has been 
moved, for instance):
.sp
.nf
	find todir -type l -print | xargs rm
.fi
.PP
The following command will find all files that are not directories:
.sp
.nf
	 find . \\! -type d -print
.fi
.EQ
delim off
.EN
