.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: locale.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/22 16:40:39 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH locale 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Llocale\*O \- Displays information about locales
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Llocale\*O
\*O[\*L\(hya\*O\ |\ \*L\(hym\*O]
.PP
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
\*Llocale\*O
\*O[\*L\(hyc\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyk\*O]
\*Vname\*O\ \&.\&.\&.
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.sE
.PP
The \*Llocale\*O command writes information about the current locale
or all public locales.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Writes information about all available public locales.
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Writes the names of the specified locale categories.
.LI "\*L-k\*O"
Writes the names and values of specified locale keywords.
.LI "\*L-m\*O"
Writes the names of all available character map files.
.\" .LI "\*Vname\*O"
.\" Specifies a locale category or locale keyword.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "locale command"
.iX "locales, current and public"
.iX "displaying" "locale information"
The \*Llocale\*O command without any flags or arguments
writes to standard output the names and values of all the current locale
environment variables, such as \*LLANG\*O and \*LLC_COLLATE\*O.
.PP
The \*Llocale\*O command with
\*L-a\*O or \*L-m\*O flags displays information about available
locales and character maps on your system.  The \*Vname\*O
argument specifies a locale category or locale keyword.
.ML
.LI
If the \*L-a\*O flag is specified, \*Llocale\*O writes
the names of all available public locales.
These are locales that are available to any application.
.LI
If the \*L-m\*O flag is specified, \*Llocale\*O writes a list of the names of
all available character-mapping files. These values are suitable
variable values for the \*L-f\*O flag with the \*Llocaledef\*O command.
.LE
.PP
The \*Llocale\*O command with
the \*Vname\*O argument displays information about locale categories
and keywords in the current locale. For example, the command could display
information about the \*Ldecimal_point\*O keyword in the
\*LLC_NUMERIC\*O category or information about all keywords in the
\*LLC_NUMERIC\*O category. The \*Vname\*O parameter can be either a
locale category or a keyword from a category.
.PP
The \*L-c\*O and \*L-k\*O flags determine the information displayed by
the \*Llocale\*O command about the locale keywords:
.VL 11m
.LI "Flags Set"
Information Written to Standard Output
.LI "None"
Value of keyword specified by \*Vname\*O parameter or values of all
keywords in the category specified by \*Vname\*O parameter.
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Name of category containing
the keyword specified by the \*Vname\*O
parameter or the name of the category specified by the \*Vname\*O
parameter, followed by values of locale keywords.
.LI "\*L-k\*O"
Names and values of locale keywords.
.LI "\*L-ck\*O"
Name of category, followed by names and values of locale keywords.
.LE
.PP
Following are the locale categories and the
associated locale keywords that can be used in the \*Vname\*O
parameter. Note that there are no associated locale keywords for the
\*LLC_COLLATE\*O and \*LLC_CTYPE\*O categories:
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "Locale Category"
Locale Keywords
.LI "\*LLC_COLLATE\*O"
None.
.LI "\*LLC_CTYPE\*O"
None.
.LI "\*LCHARMAP\*O"
\*Lcharmap\*O
.br
\*Lcode_set_name\*O
.br
\*Lmb_cur_max\*O
.br
\*Lmb_cur_min\*O
.LI "\*LLC_MESSAGES\*O"
\*Lyesexpr\*O
.br
\*Lnoexpr\*O
.br
\*Lyesstr\*O
.br
\*Lnostr\*O
.LI "\*LLC_MONETARY\*O"
\*Lint_curr_symbol\*O
.br
\*Lcurrency_symbol\*O
.br
\*Lmon_decimal_point\*O
.br
\*Lmon_grouping\*O
.br
\*Lmon_thousands_sep\*O
.br
\*Lpositive_sign\*O
.br
\*Lnegative_sign\*O
.br
\*Lint_frac_digits\*O
.br
\*Lfrac_digits\*O
.br
\*Lp_cs_precedes\*O
.br
\*Lp_sep_by_space\*O
.br
\*Ln_cs_precedes\*O
.br
\*Ln_sep_by_space\*O
.br
\*Lp_sign_posn\*O
.br
\*Ln_sign_posn\*O
.br
\*Ldebit_sign\*O
.br
\*Lcredit_sign\*O
.br
\*Lleft_parenthesis\*O
.br
\*Lright_parenthesis\*O
.LI "\*LLC_NUMERIC\*O"
\*Ldecimal_point\*O
.br
\*Lthousands_sep\*O
.br
\*Lgrouping\*O
.LI "\*LLC_TIME\*O"
\*Labday\*O
.br
\*Labmon\*O
.br
\*Lalt_digits\*O
.br
\*Lam_pm\*O
.br
\*Ld_fmt\*O
.br
\*Ld_t_fmt\*O
.br
\*Lday\*O
.br
\*Lera\*O
.br
\*Lera_d_fmt\*O
.br
\*Lera_d_t_fmt\*O
.br
\*Lera_t_fmt\*O
.br
\*Lera_year\*O
.br
\*Lmon\*O
.br
\*Lt_fmt\*O
.br
\*Lt_fmt_ampm
.LE
.PP
If multiple \*Vname\*O arguments are specified, the \*Llocale\*O
command processes them in order.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
Assume that the \*LLANG\*O environment variable is set to
\*Lfr_FR.ISO8859-1\*O and the \*LLC_MONETARY\*O environment variable
to \*Lfr_CA.ISO8859-1\*O. The following example shows results when
you enter the \*Llocale\*O command without flags:
.IP
.iS
% locale
.iE
.oS
LANG=fr_FR.ISO8859-1
LC_COLLATE="fr_FR.ISO8859-1"
LC_CTYPE="fr_FR.ISO8859-1"
LC_MONETARY="fr_CA.ISO8859-1"
LC_NUMERIC="fr_FR.ISO8859-1"
LC_TIME="fr_FR.ISO8859-1"
LC_MESSAGES="fr_FR.ISO8859-1"
LC_ALL=
.oE
.IP
The \*LLC_ALL\*O variable, if set, overrides the values of
other variables.
For example, if \*LLC_ALL\*O is set to
\*Len_US.ISO8859-1\*O,
the setting implies \*LLC_COLLATE=en_US.ISO8859-1\*O,
even if the \*LLC_COLLATE\*O environment variable is set to another locale.
.LI
In the following example, the \*Llocale\*O command retrieves the value of
the \*Ldecimal_point\*O delimiter for the current locale:
.IP
.iS
% \*Llocale -ck decimal_point\*O
.iE
.oS
LC_NUMERIC
decimal_point="."
.oE
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Llocaledef\*O(1).
.PP
Functions: \*Lsetlocale\*O(3).
.PP
Files: \*Llocale\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
