.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: localedef.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/02 22:29:43 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH localedef 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Llocaledef\*O \- Processes locale and character map files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.in +0.5i
.ti -0.5i
\*Llocaledef\*O
\*O[\*L\(hyC\ \*Vcompiler_options\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyc\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyf\ \*Vcharacter_map\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyi\ \*Vsourcefile\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyL\ \*Vlinker_options\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hym\ \*Vmethodfile\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyP\ \*Vtool_path\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyv\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyw\*O]
\*Vlocalename\*O
.in -0.5i
.sE
.PP
The \*Llocaledef\*O command
processes locale and character map files to produce a locale database.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-C \*Vcompiler_options\*O"
Passes the specified options to the compiler that builds the
locale.  If you are specifying
more than one option, enclose the list in double quotes.
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Forces the creation of locale tables.  This flag \*Emust\*O be
used if you have received warning messages; otherwise, the locale
tables will not be created.
.LI "\*L-f \*Vcharacter_map\*O"
Specifies a file that
maps character and collating symbols to actual character encodings.
Using the \*L-f\*O flag allows one source definition to be applicable
to more than one codeset.
.\" Change from technical review by TW.
If this flag is not specified, the
Portable Character Set (PCS) is used.
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
This flag must be used if symbolic names (other than collating symbols
defined in a \*Lcollating-symbol\*O keyword) are used.
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.LI "\*L-i \*Vsourcefile\*O"
Specifies the pathname of a file
containing the locale category source definitions.  If this flag is
not present, source definitions are read from standard input.
.LI "\*L-L \*Vlinker_options\*O"
Passes the specified link options to the \*Lld\*O command
used to build the locale.
.LI "\*L-m \*Vmethodfile\*O"
Specifies the name of a method file that describes which methods
are to be overridden when constructing a locale.  The \*Llocaledef\*O
command reads the method file and uses the entry points when
constructing the locale objects.  The codeset methods specified
are also used in parsing the \*Lcharmap\*O file.
.LI "\*L-P \*Vtool_path\*O"
Prepends the specified path to the compiler and linker commands.
.LI "\*L-v\*O"
Runs the command in verbose mode to display information used for debugging.
.LI "\*L-w\*O"
Displays warnings when duplicate definitions are encountered.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "localedef command"
.iX "locale" "files"
.iX "character map files"
.iX "files" "locale"
.iX "files" "character map"
The \*Llocaledef\*O command converts source files that contain
definitions of the locale-dependent information
(collation, date and time displays, character properties) into
a run-time format, and assigns the definitions a
locale name to be used with commands and functions that set the locale.
.PP
The \*Vlocalename\*O argument specifies the locale name for
the source files that are being converted. The \*Vlocalename\*O
argument can be either a full pathname for the file location or
a simple name indicating the locale name as located in the locale database.
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.PP
If a locale category source definition contains a \*Lcopy\*O statement and
the statement names a valid existing locale that is installed
in the system, \*Llocaledef\*O behaves
as if the source definition had contained a valid category source
definition for the named locale.
.PP
The character set mapping file, specified as the \*Vcharacter_map\*O
argument, is described in the \*Lcharmap\*O file format reference page.
For information about \*Llocaledef\*O source files, see the
\*Llocale\*O file format reference page.
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.PP
A method file has the following format:
.PP
.sS
\*LMETHODS\*O
.nL
\*Vmethod\*O       \*Ventry\*O [ \*Vpackage\*O [ \*Vlibrary_path\*O ]]
.nL
\*LEND METHODS\*O
.sE
.PP
The method file contains the following information:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vmethod\*O"
A method to be overridden.
.LI "\*Ventry\*O"
The C function that implements the method.
.LI "\*Vpackage\*O"
The optional package name (if not \*Llibc\*O).
.\" Added as per technical review from TW
The package field is ignored; however, you must specify it if
you specify \*Vlibrary_path\*O.
.LI "\*Vlibrary_path\*O"
The pathname of the shared-library or loadable object that contains
the \*Ventry\*O implementation.
.LE
.PP
The \*Vpackage\*O and \*Vlibrary_path\*O fields are optional.
If not specified, these fields default to \*Llibc\*O and
\*L/usr/shlib/libc.so\*O, respectively.  The \*Llocaledef\*O command
retains the last value specified for both of these fields, so
you need to specify these values only once to override the default
for the entire methods file.
.PP
The following example lists all of the legal values for
the \*Vmethod\*O field:
.PP
.oS
METHODS
__mbstopcs      "__mbstopcs_sb"	"libc" "/usr/shlib/libc.so"
__mbtopc        "__mbtopc_sb"
__pcstombs      "__pcstombs_sb"
__pctomb        "__pctomb_sb"

mblen           "__mblen_sb"
mbstowcs        "__mbstowcs_sb"
mbtowc          "__mbtowc_sb"

wctomb          "__wctomb_sb"
wcstombs        "__wcstombs_sb"

wcwidth         "__wcwidth_latin"
wcswidth        "__wcswidth_latin"

towupper        "__towupper_std"
towlower        "__towlower_std"

wctype          "__wctype_std"
iswctype        "__iswctype_std"

strcoll         "__strcoll_std"
strxfrm         "__strxfrm_std"

wcscoll         "__wcscoll_std"
wcsxfrm         "__wcsxfrm_std"

regcomp         "__regcomp_std"
regexec         "__regexec_std"
regfree         "__regfree_std"
regerror        "__regerror_std"

strfmon         "__strfmon_std"
strftime        "__strftime_std"
strptime        "__strptime_std"
wcsftime        "__wcsftime_std"

END METHODS
.oE
.\" Moved comment out of example above.
.\" .zA "defect, 7372. R1.1.2, get_wctype=wctype and is_wctype=iswctype"
.\" .zZ "defect, 7372. R1.1.2, get_wctype=wctype and is_wctype=iswctype"
.PP
Certain \*Vmethod\*O values are optional.  The preceding example shows
the defaults that take effect if you do not specify a value for a
given method.  The following methods are exceptions, however; these
must be specified whenever any methods are overridden:
.iS
__mbstopcs
__mbtopc
__pcstombs
__pctomb
mblen
mbstowcs
mbtowc
wcstombs
wcswidth
wctomb
wcwidth
.iE
.PP
Without values for the preceding methods, it is not possible to read
the \*Lcharmap\*O file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To create a locale called \*LAustin\*O from standard input
and to disregard warnings, enter:
.IP
.iS
\*Llocaledef -c Austin\*O
.iE
.LI
To create a locale called \*LAustin\*O
from \*LAustin.src\*O as source input,
enter:
.IP
.iS
\*Llocaledef -i Austin.src Austin\*O
.iE
.LE
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.AL
.LI
If an error is detected, no permanent output is created.
.LI
If warnings occur, permanent output is created if the \*L-c\*O flag is
specified.  The following conditions cause warning messages to be
issued:
.ML
.LI
If a symbolic name not found in the \*Lcharmap\*O file is used for the
descriptions of the \*LLC_TYPE\*O or \*LLC_COLLATE\*O categories (for
other categories, this is an error condition).
.LI
If the number of operands to the \*Lorder\*O keyword exceeds the
\*LCOLL_WEIGHTS_MAX\*O limit.
.LI
If optional unsupported keywords are present in the source.
.LE
.LE
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
The \*Llocaledef\*O command returns the following exit values:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L0\*O"
No errors occurred and the locale(s) were successfully created.
.LI "\*L1\*O"
Warnings occurred and the locale(s) were successfully created.
.LI "\*L2\*O"
The locale specification exceeded limits or the coded
character set(s) used are not supported, and no locale was created.
.LI "\*L3\*O"
The capability to create new locales is not supported.
.LI "\*L>3\*O"
Warnings or errors occurred and no output was created.
.LE
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Llocale\*O(1).
.PP
Files:  \*Lcharmap\*O(4), \*Llocale\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
