.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: lock.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/13 15:35:05 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH lock 1
.SH NAME
\*Llock\*O \- Requests and verifies a user password
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Llock\*O
\*O[\*L-\*Vnumber\*O]
.sE 
.PP
The \*Llock\*O command requests and reads a password from a user,
then requests the password a second time to verify it.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-\*Vnumber\*O"
Sets the time-out period to \*Vnumber\*O minutes.
The default value is 15 minutes.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "lock command"
.iX "terminals" "reserving"
.PP 
The \*Llock\*O command then locks the terminal and does not
relinquish it until the password is received again, unless one of
the following occurs:
.ML  
.LI 
The root password is entered.
.LI
The time-out interval is exceeded.
.LI
The command is killed by a user with appropriate permission.
.LE 
.PP 
The time-out default value is 15 minutes, but this can be changed
with the \*L-\*Vnumber\*O flag.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
.AL 3m 
.LI
To lock a terminal, enter:
.iS
lock
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The password is requested twice, with two different prompts, so
the system can verify it.
If the password is not repeated within 15 minutes, the command times out.
.LI
To lock a terminal for 10 minutes instead of 15, enter:
.iS
lock -10
\*O\c
.iE
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lpasswd\*O(1)/\*Lchfn\*O(1)/\*Lchsh\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
