.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: logger.1,v $ $Revision: 3.3.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/30 21:10:27 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH logger 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Llogger\*O \- Makes entries in the system log
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*L/usr/bin/logger\*O
\*O[\*L-f\*O
\*Vfile\*O]
\*O[\*L-i\*O]
\*O[\*L-p\*O
\*Vpriority\*O]
\*O[\*L-t\*O
\*Vtag\*O]\e
.br
\*O[\*Vmessage\*O...]
.\" \&...]
.sE
.br
.sS
\*Llogger\*O
\*O\*L-b\*O
\*O[\*Vmessage ...\*O]
.sE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The \*Llogger\*O command makes the specified entries in the system log file.
.PP
.iX "logger command" "messages in system log file"
The \*Llogger\*O command provides a program and shell script interface to the
\*Lsyslog()\*O subroutine.  The file in which entries are made depends on the
current system log configuration; see \*Lsyslog\*O and \*Lsyslogd\*O for more
information.
.PP
You can specify the \*Vmessage\*O to be used for entries on the command line
or with the \*L-f\*O \*Vfile\*O option, which specifies that each line in
\*Vfile\*O be logged as an entry.  If you do not specify \*Vmessage\*O or
\*L-f\*O, \*Llogger\*O reads standard input.
.SH "FLAGS"
.PP
.VL 8m
.LI "\*L-b\*O"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note
Logs the informational message to the binary event logger instead of
the \*Lsyslog()\*O subroutine and enters information in the binary event
log file.  The \*Luerf\*O command with the \*L-r 250\*O option reports
the informational messages that are in the binary even log file, which is
used for system maintenance and troubleshooting.   The \*L\-b\*O flag
cannot be used with any other flags.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L-f\*O \*Vfile\*O"
Logs all lines in \*Vfile\*O.
.LI "\*L-i\*O"
Logs the process ID (PID) of the \*Llogger\*O process with each line.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Added how to specify priority
.LI "\*L-p\*O \*Vpriority\*O[\*L.\*Vfacility\*O]"
Enters the message with the specified \*Vpriority\*O and, if specified, from
the specified \*Vfacility\*O.
.LE
.PP
You can specify \*Vpriority\*O as either an alphabetic string or its integer
equivalent.  You can specify the following values for the \*Vpriority\*O variable:
.VL 8m
.LI "\*Lpanic\*O"
NEED DESCRIPTION.  (\*L0\*O)
.LI "\*Lemerg\*O"
The system is unusable.  (\*L0\*O)
.LI "\*Lalert\*O"
Action must be taken immediately.  (\*L1\*O)
.LI "\*Lcrit\*O"
Critical conditions.  (\*L2\*O)
.LI "\*Lerr\*O"
Error conditions.  (\*L3\*O)
.LI "\*Lerror\*O"
NEED DESCRIPTION.  (\*L3\*O)
.LI "\*Lwarn\*O"
NEED DESCRIPTION.  (\*L4\*O)
.LI "\*Lwarning\*O"
Warning conditions.  (\*L4\*O)
.LI "\*Lnotice\*O"
Normal but significant condition.  (\*L5\*O)
.LI "\*Linfo\*O"
Informational. (\*L6\*O)
.LI "\*Ldebug\*O"
Debug-level messages.  (\*L7\*O)
.LE
.PP
You can also specify a value for the \*Vfacility\*O variable, which indicates
the source of the event.  You can
specify \*Vfacility\*O as either an alphabetic string or its integer
equivalent.  The integer values appear in parentheses.
You can specify the following values for the \*Vfacility\*O variable:
.VL 10m
.LI "\*Lkern\*O"
Kernel messages. (\*L0\*O)
.LI "\*Luser\*O"
Random user-level messages. (\*L8\*O)
.LI "\*Lmail\*O"
Mail system. (\*L16\*O)
.LI "\*Ldaemon\*O"
System daemons. (\*L24\*O)
.LI "\*Lauth\*O"
Security/authorization messages.  (\*L32\*O)
.LI "\*Lsecurity\*O"
NEED DESCRIPTION.  (\*L32\*O)
.LI "\*Lsyslog\*O"
Messages generated internally by \*Lsyslogd\*O.  (\*L40\*O)
.LI "\*Llpr\*O"
Line printer subsystem.  (\*L48\*O)
.LI "\*Lnews\*O"
Network news subsystem.  (\*L56\*O)
.LI "\*Luucp\*O"
UUCP subsystem.  (\*L64\*O)
.LI "\*Lcron\*O"
Clock daemon.  (\*L72\*O)
.LI "\*Llocal1\*O"
NEED DESCRIPTION.  (\*L128\*O)
.LI "\*Llocal1\*O"
NEED DESCRIPTION.  (\*L136\*O)
.LI "\*Llocal2\*O"
NEED DESCRIPTION.  (\*L144\*O)
.LI "\*Llocal3\*O"
NEED DESCRIPTION.  (\*L152\*O)
.LI "\*Llocal4\*O"
NEED DESCRIPTION.  (\*L160\*O)
.LI "\*Llocal5\*O"
NEED DESCRIPTION.  (\*L168\*O)
.LI "\*Llocal6\*O"
NEED DESCRIPTION.  (\*L176\*O)
.LI "\*Llocal7\*O"
NEED DESCRIPTION.  (\*L184\*O)
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L-t\*O \*Vtag\*O"
Precedes each entry in the log with \*Vtag\*O.
.LE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
.AL
.LI
To log the system reboot, including the process ID of the process
running \*Llogger\*O,  enter:
.iS
logger -i System rebooted
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To log each line in the file \*Lbuild.events\*O with the tag \*Ltrial build\*O
preceding them, enter:
.iS
logger -f build.events -t "trial build"
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
The following commands are equivalent and enter events of \*Lwarning\*O
priority to the log:
.iS
logger -p warning
.iE
.iS
logger -p 4
.iE
.LI
The following commands are equivalent and enter events from the
\*Ldaemon\*O facility of \*Lwarning\*O priority:
.iS
logger -p warning.daemon
.iE
.iS
logger -p 4.24
.iE
.LI
To specify the \*Ldebug\*O priority with a priority
name, enter:
.iS
logger -p debug my message
.iE
To specify the debug priority with a priority number, enter:
.iS
logger -p 7 my message
.iE
.LI
To specify both \*Luser\*O facility and the \*Ldebug\*O priority,
enter:
.iS
logger -p user.debug my message
.iE
To specify the same facility/priority
pair using numeric values, enter:
.iS
logger -p 8.7 my message
.iE
You can also combine alphabetic and numeric specifications:
.iS
logger -p user.7 my message
.iE
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands:  \*Lbinlogd\*O(8), \*Lsyslogd\*O(8), and \*Luerf\*O(8).
.PP
Functions:  \*Lsyslog\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
