.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: login.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.9 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:24:32 $
.\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
...\"build rmifdef
...\"
...\"
...\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
...\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
...\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
...\"
...\" @(#)login.1       6.4 (Berkeley) 9/14/87
...\"
.TH login 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Llogin\*O \- Signs the user on to the system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
\*Llogin\*O
\*O[\*L\-p\*O]
\*O[\*L\-h\*O
\*Vhost\*O]
\*O[[\*L\-f\*O]
\*Vuser\*O]
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.sE
.PP
The \*Llogin\*O command is used when a user initially signs on to the
system.  It is also used to change from one user to another.
.PP
This security-sensitive command uses the SIA (Security
Integration Architecture) routine
as an interface to the security mechanisms. See the
\*Lmatrix.conf\*O(4)
reference page for more information.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "login command"
.iX "logging in"
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
.\" The \*Llogin\*O command must be invoked by a process whose login
.\" user ID is not set.
.\" #else /* SEC_BASE */
The invocation of \*Llogin\*O for initial sign-on is made by a system
program or server using the latter form of the command and is
described later.
.\" #endif /* SEC_BASE */
.PP
If \*Llogin\*O is invoked without an argument, it asks for a username, and,
if appropriate, a password.  Echoing is turned off (if possible) during the
entering of the password, so it will not appear on the written record of the
session.
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
.\" #endif /* SEC_BASE */
.PP
After a successful login, accounting files are updated.  You are
informed of the existence of mail, and the message of the day
and the time of last login are displayed.  The mail message, the message of
the day, and the last login time are suppressed if there is
a \*L\&.hushlogin\*O file in the home directory; this
is mostly used to make life easier for users such as \*Luucp\*O.
.\" NON_SILVER
.\" .PP
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
.\" The \*Llogin\*O program
.\" #ifdef SEC_MAC
.\" initializes its clearance and sensitivity level,
.\" #endif /* SEC_MAC */
.\" adjusts its kernel authorizations and base privileges, initializes the
.\" user-specific audit masks, and sets the login user ID, real and
.\" effective group IDs, and supplementary groups.
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBSecurity Note\fP
.sp 6p
.rS 5
If you have enhanced security installed on your system,
the \*Llogin\*O program operates as follows:
.PP
The \*Llogin\*O program prints the last successful and unsuccessful
login times and terminal devices.  If the account does not have a
password and the authentication profile for the account requires one,
\*Llogin\*O starts the \*Lpasswd\*O program to establish one for the
account.
.PP
The \*Llogin\*O program prohibits you from logging in if any of the
following are true:
.ML
.LI
The password for the account has expired and you cannot successfully
change the password.
.LI
The password lifetime for the account has passed.
.LI
The administrative lock on the account was set.
.\" #ifdef _OSF_DCE
.\" If the user is a DCE user, the account will get locked during the
.\" login session if there is an inconsistency between the information in
.\" the protected password database and the DCE registry database.  This
.\" will happen, for instance, if the user is registered as a DCE user,
.\" but does not have an entry in the protected password database.
.\" #endif /* _OSF_DCE */
.LI
The maximum number of unsuccessful login attempts for the account
was exceeded.
.LI
The maximum number of unsuccessful login attempts for the terminal
was exceeded.
.LI
The administrative lock on the terminal was set.
.LI
The terminal has an authorized user list and you are not on it.
.LI
The terminal has time of day restrictions and the current time is
not within them.
.LI
The account was retired by the system administrator.
.LE
.PP
.sp 6p
.ce 1
\f(HBEnd Security Note\fP
.sp 6p
.PP
.rE
.\" The \*Llogin\*O program
.\" #else /* SEC_BASE */
The \*Llogin\*O command initializes the user and group IDs and
the working directory, then
.\" #endif /* SEC_BASE */
executes a command interpreter
according to specifications found in the password file.
Argument 0 (zero) of the command interpreter is
the name of the command interpreter with
a leading \*L\-\*O (dash).
.PP
The \*Llogin\*O command also modifies the environment
with information specifying home directory, command interpreter, terminal
type (if available), and username.
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBSecurity Note\fP
.sp 6p
.rS 5
If you have enhanced security installed on your system,
the \*Llogin\*O program operates as follows:
.PP
The \*Llogin\*O command always allows root to log in at the console to
avoid the situation where all accounts and terminals are locked.
.PP
.sp 6p
.ce 1
\f(HBEnd Security Note\fP
.sp 6p
.PP
.sp 6p
.rE
.\" #endif /* SEC_BASE */
If the file \*L/etc/nologin\*O exists,
\*Llogin\*O
prints its contents on your terminal and exits. This is used by
\*Lshutdown\*O
to stop users from logging in when the system is about to go down.
.PP
Login is recognized by \*Lsh\*O, \*Lcsh\*O, and \*Lksh\*O
and executed directly (without forking).
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
.\" .SS Security Restrictions
.\" The \*Llogin\*O program cannot be invoked from the command line.
.\" Only processes descended from \*Linit\*O that have not set their
.\" login ID can invoke \*Llogin\*O.
.\" #endif /* SEC_BASE */
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
.\" Note that the \*Llogin\*O command must be
.\" invoked by a process whose login user ID is not set.
.\" #else /* SEC_BASE */
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Changed the following sentence in response to QAR 7119.
.\" With one exception, these flags are available only to the superuser.
With the exception of \*L-p\*O, these flags are
available only to the superuser.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" #endif /* SEC_BASE */
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-h\*O \*Vhost\*O"
Used by \*Ltelnetd\*O(8)
and other servers to list the host from which
the connection was received.
.\" Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.LI "\*L\-f\*O"
.\" Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
.\" Used only on secure systems if the login user ID is not set.  If you are
.\" already logged in, you cannot use this flag.
.\" #else /* SEC_BASE */
Used with a username \*Vuser\*O on the command line
to indicate that proper authentication was already done
and that no password needs to be requested.
.\" #endif /* SEC_BASE */
.LI "\*L\-p\*O"
Causes the remainder of the environment to be preserved;
otherwise, any previous environment is discarded.
.LE
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.VL 0.5i
.LI "\f(CWLogin incorrect\f1"
The username or the password is invalid.
.LI "\f(CWNo Shell, cannot open password file, no directory\f1,"
Consult your system administrator.
.LE
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBSecurity Note\fP
.sp 6p
.rS 5
If you have enhanced security installed on your system,
the following diagnostic message may be seen:
.PP
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
.VL 0.5i
.LI "\f(CWCannot execute passwd program\f1"
The \*Llogin\*O program cannot invoke the \*Lpasswd\*O program.
.LI "\f(CWLogin aborted due to no password\f1"
The \*Lpasswd\*O program is invoked, the user is unable to change the
password, and the account requires one.
.LI "\f(CWAccount/Terminal is disabled but console login is allowed\f1"
The \*Llogin\*O program is allowing a root login at the system console
despite a condition that would normally not allow such a login.
.LI "\f(CWAccount is disabled - see System Admin\f1"
The account is locked for one of the reasons listed previously.
.LI "\f(CWTerminal is disabled - see System Admin\f1"
The terminal is locked for one of the reasons listed previously.
.LI "\f(CWNot authorized for terminal access - see System Admin\f1"
You are not on the authorized user list for the terminal.
.LI "\f(CWWrong time period to log into this terminal\f1"
The current time is not within the current time-of-day restrictions
for the terminal.
.\" .LI "\f(CWBad clearance or session security level\f1"
.\" The sensitivity level of the login process cannot be set or is outside
.\" the terminal range or account clearance.
.\" .LI "\f(CWCan not set terminal security level\f1"
.\" The \*Llogin\*O program had trouble setting the terminal device
.\" sensitivity level.
.LE
.\" #endif /* SEC_BASE */
.PP
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
After an unsuccessful login attempt, \*Llogin\*O waits a configurable
amount of time before it prompts for another login attempt.
.PP
If the account's password was changed by another user, \*Llogin\*O
prints the time the password was changed and the user who changed it.
.PP
If your password is about to expire, \*Llogin\*O warns you of the time
of the impending expiration.  Your system administrator sets the
warning period.
.\" #endif /* SEC_BASE */
.PP
.sp 6p
.ce 1
\f(HBEnd Security Note\fP
.sp 6p
.PP
.rE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/var/adm/utmp\*O"
Contains user and accounting information.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/wtmp\*O"
Contains login history.
.LI "\*L/usr/adm/lastlog\*O"
Contains last login time stamps.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/mail/*\*O"
Mail directory.
.LI "\*L/etc/motd\*O"
Message of the day.
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O"
Contains user information.
.LI "\*L/etc/nologin\*O"
Stops logins.
.LI "\*L\&.hushlogin\*O"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Fixed 'Suppresses' per QAR 6104.
Suppresses mail notification, message of the day, and last login time.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Linit\*O(8), \*Lgetty\*O(8),
\*Lmail\*O(1), \*Lbinmail\*O(1), \*Lmailx\*O(1), \*LMail\*O(1),
\*Lpasswd\*O(1), \*Lchfn\*O(1), \*Lchsh\*O(1), \*Lrlogin\*O(1),
\*Lshutdown\*O(8).
.PP
Functions:  \*Lgetpass\*O(3).
.PP
Files:  \*Lmatrix.conf\*O(4), \*Lpasswd\*O(4), \*Lutmp\*O(4).
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
.PP
\*EEnhanced Security\*O
.\" #endif SEC_BASE
.EQ
delim off
.EN
