.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: look.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/13 15:36:21 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH look 1
.SH NAME
\*Llook\*O \- Finds lines in a sorted list
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Llook\*O
\*O[\*L-df\*O]
\*O[\*L-t\*Vcharacter\*O]
\*Vstring\*O
\*O[\*Vfile\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Llook\*O command prints all lines in a sorted file
that begin with \*Vstring\*O.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-d\*O"
Uses dictionary order; only letters, digits,
tabs, and spaces are used in comparisons.
.LI "\*L-f\*O" 
Searches without regard to case; treats uppercase and
lowercase as equivalent.
.LI "\*L-t\*Vcharacter\*O" 
Ignores \*Vcharacter\*O and characters following it in the search
\*Vstring\*O.  If you specify \*Llook -tC ABCDE\*O,
the \*Vstring\*O \*LABCDE\*O would become (in effect) \*LAB\*O, with
\*LCDE\*O being ignored.  This flag is primarily for shell scripts, in which
more than one \*Vstring\*O is being processed.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "look command"
.iX "finding" "lines in a sorted list"
.iX "sorted list" "finding lines in"
.iX "list" "finding lines in a sorted"
.iX "lines" "finding in a sorted list"
.PP 
If no \*Vfile\*O is specified, \*Llook\*O searches in the system word list
\*L/usr/share/dict/words\*O, with the flags \*L-df\*O assumed by default.
.PP 
The \*Llook\*O command uses binary search.
.PP 
The \*L-d\*O and \*L-f\*O flags affect comparisons as in \*Lsort\*O.
.SH EXAMPLES
.AL 3m 
.LI
To search a sorted file called \*Lsortfile\*O
for all lines that begin with the string \*Las\*O, enter:
.iS
look as sortfile
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To search the system word list for all words beginning with \*Lsmi\*O, enter:
.iS
look smi
\*O\c
.iE
.PP 
This might result in:
.oS
smile
smirk
smith
smithereens
Smithfield
Smithson
Smithsonian
smithy
smitten
\*O\c
.oE
.LE 
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/share/dict/words\*O"
System word list.
.LE 
.SH NOTES
.PP 
In order to use the \*L-f\*O flag, you must first sort \*Vfile\*O
with the \*Lsort -f\*O command; otherwise, \*Llook\*O displays
only lowercase items.
.PP 
If you do not specify \*L-f\*O, but specify a \*Vfile\*O (such as
\*L/usr/share/dict/words\*O) that has been sorted with \*Lsort -f\*O,
\*Llook\*O may not produce any output.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lgrep\*O(1)/\*Legrep\*O(1)/\*Lfgrep\*O(1),
\*Lsort\*O(1), \*Lspell\*O(1)/\*Lspellin\*O(1)/\*Lspellout\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
