.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: lp.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 21:34:31 $
.\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
...\"build rmifdef
.TH lp 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Llp\*O, \*Lcancel\*O \- Sends or cancels a printing request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.sS
\*Llp\*O
\*O[\*L\(hycmsw\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyd\ \*Vprinter\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyn\ \*Vcopies\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyt\ \*Vtitle\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O\ \&.\&.\&.]
.PP
.\" .zA "defect, 7756, R1.1.2, made arg mandatory"
\*Lcancel\*O
\*Vrequest_ID\*O\ \&.\&.\&.\ \*L|\
\*Vprinter\*O\ \&.\&.\&.
.\" .zZ "defect, 7756, R1.1.2, made arg mandatory"
.sE
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.PP
The \*Llp\*O command sends the specified files and associated
information (collectively called a request) to a line printer for
printing.  The \*Lcancel\*O command cancels printing requests.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.iX "lp command"
.iX "cancel command"
.iX "line printers" "backend"
.iX "printers" "backend"
.iX "printers" "sending requests"
.iX "printers" "canceling requests"
.iX "backend" "printer"
.iX "sending" "printer request"
.iX "canceling" "printer requests"
.iX "printers" "request" "sending"
.iX "printers" "request" "canceling"
Flags for the \*Llp\*O command can appear in any order and can be mixed
with filenames.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-c\*O"
Makes copies of the files to be printed immediately when \*Llp\*O is
invoked.  Normally, files are not copied, but are linked whenever
possible.  If the \*L\-c\*O flag is not given, be careful not to remove
any of the files before the request is finished printing.  Note also
that in the absence of the \*L\-c\*O flag any changes made to the named
files after the request is made, but before it is printed, are
reflected in the printed output.
.LI "\*L\-d#\*Vprinter\*O"
Selects \*Vprinter\*O as the device to do the printing (also known as
the printing \*Vdestination\*O).  Under certain
conditions (printer unavailability, file space limitations, and so on),
requests for specific destinations cannot be accepted.  By default,
\*Vprinter\*O is taken from the
\*LLPDEST\*O environment variable if it is set.
Otherwise, the \*LPRINTER\*O environment variable
or a default destination, if one exists,
for the system is used.  Destination names vary between
systems.  (See the \*Llpq\*O and \*Llpstat\*O commands.)
.LI "\*L\-m\*O"
Sends mail (see the \*Lmailx\*O command) after the files are
printed.  By default, no mail is sent upon normal completion of the
print request.
.LI "\*L\-n#\*Vnumber\*O"
Prints \*Vnumber\*O copies (default of 1).
.LI "\*L\-s\*O"
Suppresses messages from \*Llp\*O, such as \*Crequest id is \&...\*O
.LI "\*L\-t#\*Vtitle\*O"
Prints \*Vtitle\*O on the banner page of the output.
.LI "\*L\-w\*O"
Functions like \*L\-m\*O (for compatibility reasons).
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Llp\*O command associates a unique ID with each request and prints
it on the standard output.  If you do not specify a \*Vfile\*O, or
specify a \*L\-\*O (dash) in place of a file, \*Llp\*O accepts standard input
at this point in the list of files.
.PP
The \*Lcancel\*O command cancels printer requests made by the \*Llp\*O or
\*Llpr\*O commands (see \*Llpr\*O).  You can specify either \*Vrequest_ID\*O,
to cancel the request with that request ID, or \*Vprinter\*O, to cancel all
requests made by you with that printer as the destination.
(If you are
operating with superuser authority, all requests to that printer are
canceled, including those of other users.)
A specified
request is canceled even if it is currently printing, and the printer is
freed to print the next available request.
.PP
You can also use the request ID to find the status
of the request (see the \*Llpq\*O and \*Llpstat\*O commands).
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/etc/printcap\*O"
Printer description file.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/*\*O"
Spool directories.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/*/cf*\*O"
Daemon control files.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/*/df*\*O"
Data files specified in \*Lcf\*O files.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/*/tf*\*O"
Temporary copies of \*Lcf\*O files.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/*/minfree\*O"
Minimum free space to leave.
.LI "\*L/dev/lp*\*O"
Line printer devices.
.LI "\*L/dev/printer\*O"
Socket for local requests.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Llpc\*O(8), \*Llpd\*O(8),
\*Llpq\*O(1), \*Llpr\*O(1), \*Llprm\*O(1), \*Llpstat\*O(1),
\*Lmailx\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
