.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: lpr.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.9.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/30 21:01:37 $
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.\" 
.\" 
.TH lpr 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Llpr\*O \- Sends files to spooling daemon for printing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Llpr\*O [\*Voptions\*O]  \*Vfilename\*O
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
Several \*Llpr\*O flags (\*L\-c\*O, \*L\-d\*O, \*L\-f\*O, \*L\-g\*O,
\*L\-l\*O, \*L\-n\*O, \*L\-p\*O, \*L\-t\*O,
\*L\-v\*O) are used to notify the line printer spooler
that the files are not standard text files; therefore these flags
are mutually exclusive.  The spooling
daemon uses the appropriate filters to print the data if you
specify one of these flags.
.PP
The \*Llpr\*O command supports the following flags:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-c\*O"
Assumes that the files contain data produced by the \*Lcifplot\*O filter.
.LI "\*L\-C \*Vclass\*O"
Specifies a print class as the request classification on the burst page.
.LI "\*L\-d\*O"
Assumes that files contain data from
\*Ltex\*O (DVI format from Stanford University).
.LI "\*L\-f\*O"
Interprets the first character of each line as a
standard FORTRAN carriage control character.
.LI "\*L\-g\*O"
Assumes that files contain standard plot data as produced by
\*Lplot\*O routines.
.LI "\*L\-h\*O"
Suppresses the printing of the burst page.
.LI "\*L\-i\*O [\*Vnumber\*O]"
Indents the output \*Vnumber\*O spaces.
If \*Vnumber\*O is not given, the indentation is 8 spaces.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L\-I\*O\*Vtray\*O"
Selects the input paper tray that supplies paper for the print job.
The tray name is printer dependent.  The following list shows the
\*Vtray\*O variable specification for the printers that support
the \*L\-I\*O flag:
.RS 8
.VL 0.15i
.LI "\*Oln05\ and\ ln05r printers:\*L"
.nL
\*L\-I\*O\*Vcassette\*O|\*Vupper\*O|\*Vmanual\*O
.LI "\*Oln06\ and\ ln06r printers:\*L"
.nL
\*L\-I\*O\*Vupper\*O|\*Venvelope_feeder\*O|\*Vlower\*O|\*Vmanual\*O
.LI "\*Oln07\ and\ ln07r printers:\*L"
.nL
\*L\-I\*O\*Vupper\*O|\*Vmanual\*O|\*Vlower\*O|\*Vcassette\*O
.LI "\*Oln08\ and\ ln08r printers:\*L"
.nL
\*L\-I\*O\*Venvelope_feeder\*O|\*Vmmf\*O|\*Vmanual\*O|\*Vupper\*O| \*Vlower\*O|\*Vlcit\*O
.LE
.IP
For more information on the input options, refer to the documentation
for your printer.
.IP
If you have one of the previously listed printers connected locally,
there are two additional forms of the \*L\-I\*O flag.
You can specify the flag in the form \*L\-I\*Vtray_name\*Ltray\*O,
where the \*Vtray_name\*O variable specifies the name of a tray
that is supported by the particular printer (for example,
\*L\-Ilettertray\*O).  You also can specify the flag in the form
\*L\-I\*Vn\*O, where the \*Vn\*O variable specifies an integer value.
Refer to your printer documentation for information on specifying
valid tray selections.
.RE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L\-j\*O"
Causes the request ID of the printer request to be displayed on standard
output after it is entered in the print spooling queue.
.LI "\*L\-J \*Vname\*O"
Specifies the request name to appear on the burst page.
Normally, the \*Llpr\*O command uses the name
of the first file.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L\-K\*O\*Vsides\*O"
Prints the job in a way specified by the \*Vsides\*O variable.  You can
specify \*Vsides\*O as follows:
.RS 8
.VL
.LI "\*V1\*O or \*Vone_sided\*O or \*Vone_sided_simplex\*O"
.nL
Prints only on one side of the sheet.
.LI "\*V2\*O or \*Vtwo_sided\*O or \*Vtwo_sided_duplex\*O"
.nL
Prints on both sides of the sheet; the second side is reached by
flipping the sheet about its left edge, as in the binding of a book.
.LI "\*Vtumble\*O or \*Vtwo_sided_tumble\*O"
Prints on both sides of the sheet, but prints the opposite way up on each
side, so the second side can be read by flipping the sheet along its
top axis.
.LI "\*Vone_sided_duplex\*O"
Prints only on one side of the sheet, but retains the page layout intended
for \*Vtwo_sided_duplex\*O printing.
The layout refers to such things as where the margins are and where the
page numbers are.
.LI "\*Vone_sided_tumble\*O"
Prints only on one side of the paper, but retains the page layout intended
for tumble printing.
.LI "\*Vtwo_sided_simplex\*O"
Prints on two sides of the paper, but retains the page layout
intended for \*Vone_sided_simplex\*O printing.
.LE
.RE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L\-l\*O"
Prints control characters and suppresses page breaks.
.LI "\*L\-m\*O"
Sends mail (see the \*Lmailx\*O command) when spooling is
completed.
.LI "\*L\-n\*O"
Assumes that files contain data from
\*Lditroff\*O (device independent \*Ltroff\*O).
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
DEC OSF/1 does not supply \*Lditroff\*O, so this flag
might not apply to your system.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.\" #ifdef LICENSEE
.\" (See \*LRELATED INFORMATION\*O.)
.\" #endif /* LICENSEE */
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L\-o\*O\*Vn\*O"
Selects the output tray where the printed job will be deposited.  The
\*Vn\*O variable specifies an integer value that depends on the
printer.  Refer to your printer documentation to determine the correct
values.
.\"    From ULTRIX description:
.\" 
.\" If the \*L\-o\*O option is not specified, the value for the input paper
.\" tray is taken from the
.\" \*Lprintcap\*O
.\" file, and if no entry is present there, from the printer.
.\" 
.LI "\*L\-O\*O\*Vorientation\*O"
Prints the page in the way specified by the \*Vorientation\*O variable,
which can be the following:
.RS 8
.VL
.LI "\*Vportrait\*O"
The printed output is parallel to the short side of the page.
.LI "\*Vlandscape\*O"
The printed output is parallel to the long side of the page.
.LE
.RE
.\"     From the ULTRIX description:
.\" .PP
.\" If the \*L\-O\*O option is not specified, the value orientation
.\" is taken from the
.\" \*Lprintcap\*O
.\" file, and if no entry is present there, it defaults to \*Vportrait\*O. 
.\" 
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L\-p\*O"
Formats the files using \*Lpr\*O as a filter.
.LI "\*L\-P\*Vprinter\*O"
Specifies \*Vprinter\*O as the output device (print job destination).
If you do not specify the \*L\-P\*O flag, the default printer
or the value of the \*LPRINTER\*O environment variable is used.
.LI "\*L\-r\*O"
Removes the file when spooling or printing (with the \*L\-s\*O flag) is
completed.
.LI "\*L\-s\*O"
Uses symbolic links to print.  Usually, files are copied to the
spooling directory, but the \*L\-s\*O flag uses \*Lsymlink()\*O to
link data files, rather than
trying to copy them.  This allows you to print large files.  If you
specify the \*L\-s\*O flag, files should not be modified or removed
until they have been printed.
.LI "\*L\-t\*O"
Assumes that files contain data from \*Ltroff\*O
(cat phototypesetter commands) binary data.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
DEC OSF/1 does not supply \*Ltroff\*O, so this
binary data might not exist on your system.
.\" #ifdef LICENSEE
.\" (See \*LRELATED INFORMATION\*O.)
.\" #endif /* LICENSEE */
.\" End Digital-specific information 
.LI "\*L\-T \*Vtitle\*O"
Specifies the title to be used by the
\*Lpr\*O command instead of the filename.  The \*L\-p\*O flag also must
be specified.
.LI "\*L\-v\*O"
Assumes that the files contain a raster image for devices like the
Benson Varian.
.LI "\*L\-w\*Vnumber\*O"
Defines the page width for the \*Lpr\*O command.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L\-x\*O"
Assumes the files do not require filtering before printing.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L\-#\*Vnumber\*O"
Produces \*Vnumber\*O copies of the output.
.LI "\*L\-1\*O \*Vfont\*O, \*L\-2\*O \*Vfont\*O, \*L\-3\*O \*Vfont\*O, \*L\-4\*O \*Vfont\*O"
Mounts the specified font on font position 1, 2, 3, or 4,
respectively.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "lpr command"
.iX "printing" "files"
.iX "files" "printing"
.iX "spooling" "daemon"
.iX "daemons" "spooling"
The \*Llpr\*O command uses the \*Llpd\*O spooling daemon to print files.
.gL "spooling"
.PP
If you specify a \*L\-\*O (dash) for a file name, \*Llpr\*O reads from
standard input; this can be used in conjunction with specified file names.
.PP
If you do not specify a particular printer with the \*L\-P\*O flag,
the default printer or the value
of the \*LPRINTER\*O environment variable is used.
.PP
To check the status of a printer, use either the \*Llpq\*O or
\*Llpstat\*O command.  To
cancel printer requests, use the \*Llprm\*O or \*Lcancel\*O command.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.AL
.LI
DEC OSF/1 does not include \*Lditroff\*O or \*Ltroff\*O.
.LI
If you try to print too large a file, the file is truncated.
The \*Llpr\*O command does not print binary files.  If a user
other than
the root user
prints a file and spooling is disabled, \*Llpr\*O will
print a message and will not put requests in the queue.
If a connection to \*Llpd\*O on the local machine cannot be made,
\*Llpr\*O will indicate that the daemon cannot be started.
.LI
Fonts for \*Ltroff\*O and \*Ltext\*O reside on the host with the
printer.  Currently, it is not possible to use local font libraries.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
DEC OSF/1 does not supply \*Ltroff\*O, so local font
libraries for \*Ltroff\*O might not exist on your system.
.\" #ifdef LICENSEE
.\" (See \*LRELATED INFORMATION\*O.)
.\" #endif /* LICENSEE */
.\" End Digital-specific information 
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example prints three copies of the \*Lnew.index.c\*O,
\*Lprint.index.c\*O, and \*Lmore.c\*O files:
.iS
# lpr \-#3 new.index.c print.index.c more.c
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The following example prints three copies of the concatenated
\*Lnew.index.c\*O, \*Lprint.index.c\*O, and \*Lmore.c\*O files:
.iS
# cat new.index.c print.index.c more.c | lpr \-#3
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The following example prints \*LOperations\*O on the burst page instead
of the node name before printing the \*Lnew.index.c\*O file:
.iS
# lpr \-C Operations new.index.c
\*O\c
.iE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O"
User information
.LI "\*L/etc/printcap\*O"
Printer description file
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Changed sbin to lbin per QAR 8018.
.LI "\*L/usr/lbin/lpd\*O"
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
Line printer daemon
.LI "\*L/var/spool/*\*O"
Spool directories
.LI "\*L/var/spool/*/cf*\*O"
Daemon control files
.LI "\*L/var/spool/*/df*\*O"
Data files specified in \*Lcf\*O files
.LI "\*L/var/spool/*/tf*\*O"
Temporary copies of \*Lcf\*O files
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Llp\*O(1)/\*Lcancel\*O(1), \*Llpc\*O(8), \*Llpd\*O(8),
\*Llpq\*O(1), \*Llprm\*O(1), \*Llpstat\*O(1),
\*Lmailx\*O(1)/\*LMail\*O(1), \*Lpr\*O(1).
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Digital references
.PP
Commands: \*Lnroff\*O, \*Ltbl\*O,
\*Lneqn\*O, \*Lneqn\*O, \*Lcheckeq\*O, \*Lchecknr\*O
.PP
Functions:  \*Lsymlink\*O(2).
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" #ifdef LICENSEE
.\" .PP 
.\" The \*Lnroff\*O, \*Ltroff\*O, \*Ltbl\*O,
.\" \*Leqn\*O, \*Lneqn\*O, \*Lcheckeq\*O, \*Lcheckmm\*O, and \*Lchecknr\*O
.\" commands may be available on your system, 
.\" but are not provided with OSF/1.
.\" The same is true of printer-specific filters like \*Ltex\*O,
.\" (\*Ldi\*O)\*Ltroff\*O, and so on.
.\" #endif /* LICENSEE */
.\"
.\" End Digital-specific information
.EQ
delim off
.EN
