.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: lprm.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 21:37:20 $
.\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
...\"build rmifdef
.TH lprm 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Llprm\*O \- Removes requests from the line printer spooling queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Llprm\*O
\*O[\*L\-P\*Vprinter\*O]
\*O[\*L\-\*O]
\*O[\*Vrequest_ID\*O
\&.\&.\&.]
\*O[\*Vuser\*O
\&.\&.\&.]
.sE
.PP
The \*Llprm\*O command
removes one or more requests from a printer's spool queue.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "lprm command"
.iX "canceling" "printer requests"
.iX "queues" "canceling requests"
.iX "printers" "canceling queued requests"
.iX "line printers" "spooling queue"
.iX "requests" "removing from printer queue"
Because the spooling directory is protected from users, using
.gL "spooling"
\*Llprm\*O is normally the way a user can remove a request.
.PP
The \*Llprm\*O command without any arguments
deletes the currently active request if it is
owned by the user who invoked \*Llprm\*O.
.PP
The \*L\-\*O flag removes all requests from the user issuing the command.
If a user who has
superuser authority
uses this flag, the spool queue is emptied
entirely.  The owner is determined by the user's username
and hostname on the machine where the \*Llpr\*O command was invoked.
.PP
You can remove an individual request from a queue by specifying its
request ID.  (You can obtain the request ID by using the \*Llpq\*O or
\*Llpstat\*O commands.)  Specifying one or more \*Vuser\*Os
removes any requests queued belonging to those \*Vuser\*Os.
This
works only for a user with superuser authority.
.PP
The \*Llprm\*O command is silent if there are no requests in
the queue that match the request list.
.PP
The \*Llprm\*O command kills an active daemon, if necessary, before
removing any spooling files.  If a daemon is killed, a new one is
automatically restarted upon completion of file removals.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-\*O"
Removes all requests that a user
owns.  If specified by a user
with superuser authority,
the spool queue is emptied entirely.
.LI "\*L\-P\*Vprinter\*O"
Specifies the queue associated with a specific
printer; otherwise, the default printer or the value of the \*LPRINTER\*O
variable in the environment is used.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To remove a request from the default queue by specifying the request ID, enter:
.iS
lprm 13
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To remove a request from a specific queue, enter:
.iS
lprm \-Plp0 13
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To remove from a specific queue a request from user \*Lguest\*O, enter:
.iS
lprm \-Plp0 guest
\*O\c
.iE
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
Because race conditions are possible in the update of the lock
file, the currently active request may be incorrectly identified.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.VL 14m
.LI "\*CPermission denied\*O"
The user tried to remove files that belong to another user.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/etc/printcap\*O"
Printer description file.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/*\*O"
Spool directories.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/*/cf*\*O"
Daemon control files.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/*/df*\*O"
Data files specified in \*Lcf\*O files.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/*/tf*\*O"
Temporary copies of \*Lcf\*O files.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/*/lock\*O"
Lock file used to obtain the process ID of the current
daemon and the request ID of the currently active request.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Llp\*O(1)/\*Lcancel\*O(1), \*Llpc\*O(8), \*Llpd\*O(8),
\*Llpq\*O(1), \*Llpr\*O(1), \*Llpstat\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
