.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: lpstat.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/28 19:53:48 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.TH lpstat 1
.SH NAME
\*Llpstat\*O \- Displays line printer status information
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Llpstat\*O
\*O[\*L\-a\*O][\*Vlist\*O]
\*O[\*L\-d\*O
|
\*L\-r\*O
|
\*L\-s\*O
|
\*L\-t\*O]
\*O[\*L\-o\*O][\*Vlist\*O]
\*O[\*L\-p\*O][\*Vlist\*O]
\*O[\*L\-u\*O][\*Vlist\*O]
\*O[\*L\-v\*O][\*Vlist\*O]
.sE 
.PP
The \*Llpstat\*O command displays information about
the current status of the line printer.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
If no flags are given, then \*Llpstat\*O displays the status of
all requests made by the \*Llp\*O and \*Llpr\*O commands. Any
arguments that are not flags are assumed to be request IDs (as returned
by the \*Llp\*O or \*Llpr\*O commands).  The \*Llpstat \*Ocommand displays
the status of such requests.
.PP 
Flags can appear in any order and can be repeated and intermixed with other
flags.  Some flags can be followed by an optional list that is either
a list of items separated from one another by a \*L,\*O (comma), or a list of
items enclosed in \*L" "\*O 
(double quotes) and separated from one another
by a comma or one or more spaces.  For example:
.iS
\-u"user1,\ user2,\ user3"
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
Specifying just the flag with no arguments causes all information
pertaining to that flag to be displayed.
.PP 
If the \*LLPDEST\*O environment variable is set to a valid printer
name, this becomes the default destination; otherwise, \*LPRINTER\*O
is tried and, as a last resort, a system-specific printer.
.SH "FLAGS"
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-a[\*Vlist\*L]\*O"
Specifies the display of acceptance status
(with respect to the \*Llp\*O  and \*Llpr\*O commands) of destinations
for requests.  \*Vlist\*O is a list of intermixed printer
names and request IDs.
.LI "\*L\-d" 
\*OSpecifies the display of the system default destination
for the \*Llp\*O and \*Llpr\*O commands.
.LI "\*L\-o[\*Vlist\*L]\*O" 
\*OSpecifies the display of the status of printer
requests. \*Vlist\*O is a list of intermixed printer names and request IDs.
.LI "\*L\-p[\*Vlist\*L]\*O" 
\*OSpecifies the display of the status of printers.
\*Vlist\*O is a list of printer names.
.LI "\*L\-r" 
\*OSpecifies the display of the status of the line printer
daemon.
.LI "\*L\-s" 
\*OSpecifies the display of a status
summary, including the status of the line printer scheduler, the system
default destination, and a list of printers and their associated devices.
.LI "\*L\-t" 
\*OSpecifies the display of all status
information.
.LI "\*L\-u[\*Vlist\*L]\*O" 
\*OSpecifies the display of the status of
all printer requests. \*Vlist\*O is a list of usernames.
.LI "\*L\-v[\*Vlist\*L]\*O" 
\*OSpecifies the display of the names of printers
and the pathnames of the devices associated with them. \*Vlist\*O
is a list of printer names.
.LE 
.SH NOTES
.PP 
Output produced by the \*Llpstat\*O command is very similar to output
from \*Llpq\*O and \*Llpc\*O, rather than output from earlier versions of
\*Llpstat\*O.
.SH "FILES"
.PP 
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/etc/printcap\*O"
Printer description file.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/*\*O" 
Spool directories.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/*/minfree\*O" 
Minimum free space to leave.
.LI "\*L/dev/lp*\*O" 
Line printer devices.
.LI "\*L/dev/printer\*O" 
Socket for local requests.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/*/cf*\*O" 
Daemon control files.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/*/df*\*O" 
Data files specified in \*Lcf\*O files.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/*/tf*\*O" 
Temporary copies of \*Lcf\*O files.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/*/lock\*O" 
Lock file used to obtain the process ID of the current
daemon and the request ID of the currently active request.
.LE 
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands: \*Llp\*O(1)/\*Lcancel\*O(1), \*Llpc\*O(8), \*Llpd\*O(8),
\*Llpq\*O(1), \*Llpr\*O(1), \*Llprm\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
