.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ls.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/30 17:28:29 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
.\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail 
.\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH ls 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lls\*O \- Lists and generates statistics for files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lls\*O
\*O[\*L-aAbcCdfFgilLmnopqrRstux1\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O
\&...
|
\*Vdirectory\*O
\&...]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lls\*O command writes to standard output the contents of each
specified directory or the name of each specified
file, along with any other information you ask for with flags.
If you do not specify a file or a directory,
\*Lls\*O displays the contents of the current directory.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Lists all entries in the directory, including the entries that begin
with a \*L.\*O (dot). Entries that begin with a . are not displayed
unless you refer to them specifically, or you specify the \*L-a\*O
flag.
.\"Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\"Added information about superuser behavior for QARS 
.\"05124 and 06876.
.LI "\*L-A\*O"
Lists all entries, except \&. (dot) and \&.\&.  (dot-dot). If you issue
the \*Lls\*O command as the superuser, it behaves as if you specified
this flag.
.\"End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.LI "\*L-b\*O"
Displays nonprintable characters in octal notation.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Clarified meaning of -c with -l. Made the last sentence "positive"
.\" (flag has effect), instead of "negative" (flag has no effect).
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Uses the time of last inode modification (file created, mode
changed, and so on) for sorting when used with the \*L-t\*O flag.
Displays the time of last inode modification (instead of the time at
which the file's contents were last modified)
when used with the \*L-l\*O flag.
This flag has effect only when used with either \*L-t\*O or \*L-l\*O or both.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.LI "\*L-C\*O"
Sorts output vertically in a multicolumn format.
This is the default when output is to a terminal.
.LI "\*L-d\*O"
Displays only the information for the directory that is named,
rather than for its contents.  This is
useful with the \*L-l\*O flag to get the status of a directory.
.LI "\*L-f\*O"
Lists the name in each slot for each named directory.
This flag turns off \*L-l\*O, \*L-t\*O, \*L-s\*O,
and \*L-r\*O, and turns on \*L-a\*O; this flag uses the
order in which entries appear in the directory.
.LI "\*L-F\*O"
Puts a / (slash) after each filename if the
file is a directory, an
* (asterisk) after each filename if the file can be executed,
an = (equal sign) after each filename if the file is a socket,
and an @ (at sign) for a symbolic link, and a | (vertical bar) for a
FIFO.
.LI "\*L-g\*O"
Displays the same information as \*L-l\*O, except for the owner.
.LI "\*L-i\*O"
Displays the i-number in the
first column of the report for each file.
.LI "\*L-l\*O"
Displays the mode, number of links, owner, group, size (in bytes),
and time of last modification for each file, and pathname.
If the file is a special file, the size field instead contains the
major and minor device numbers.
If the file is a symbolic link, the pathname of the linked-to
file is also printed preceded by ->.
The attributes of the symbolic link are displayed.
The \*L-n\*O flag overrides the \*L-l\*O flag.
.LI "\*L-L\*O"
Lists the file or directory the link references rather than the link itself,
if the argument is a symbolic link.
.LI "\*L-m\*O"
Uses stream output format (a comma-separated series).
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Displays the same information as \*L-l\*O, except that it
displays the user and the group IDs instead of the usernames and group names.
.LI "\*L-o\*O"
Displays the same information as with \*L-l\*O, except
for the group.  The \*L-n\*O flag overrides the \*L-o\*O flag.
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Puts a slash after each filename if that file is a directory.
.LI "\*L-q\*O"
Displays nonprintable characters in filenames
as a ? (question mark) character, if output is to a terminal (default).
.LI "\*L-r\*O"
Reverses the order of the sort, giving reverse collation or the
oldest first, as appropriate.
.LI "\*L-R\*O"
Lists all subdirectories recursively.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Gives space used in n 512-byte units (including indirect blocks) for each entry.
.LI "\*L-t\*O"
Sorts by time of last modification (latest first) instead of by name.
.LI "\*L-u\*O"
Uses the time of the last access instead of time of the last
modification for sorting (when used with \*L-t\*O) or for
displaying (when used with \*L-l\*O).
This flag has no effect when not used with either \*L-t\*O or
\*L-l\*O or both.
.LI "\*L-x\*O"
Sorts output horizontally in a multicolumn format.
.LI "\*L-1\*O"
Forces one entry per line output format; this is the default
when output is not directed to a terminal.
.LE
.PP
When you specify the following mutually exclusive flags, the last flag
on the command line takes effect:
.ML
.LI
\*L-C\*O and \*L-l\*O (ell)
.LI
\*L-C\*O and \*L-1\*O (one)
.LI
\*L-m\*O and \*L-l\*O (ell)
.LI
\*L-x\*O and \*L-l\*O (ell)
.LI
\*L-c\*O and \*L-u\*O
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ls command"
.iX "displaying" "directory contents"
.iX "directories" "listing contents"
.iX "files" "listing"
By default, \*Lls\*O displays all information in collated order
by filename.  The collating sequence is determined by the
\*LLC_COLLATE\*O environment variable (see the \*Lctab\*O command).
.iX "collating sequence"
.PP
There are three main ways to format the output:
.ML
.LI
List entries in multiple columns by specifying either
the \*L-C\*O or \*L-x\*O flags.
\*L-C\*O is the default format, when output is to a terminal.
.LI
List one entry per line.
.LI
List entries in a comma-separated series by specifying
the \*L-m\*O flag.
.LE
.PP
The \*Lls\*O command uses \*Lioctl()\*O to determine the number of
byte positions in the output line.  If \*Lls\*O cannot get this
information, it uses a default value of 80.
Note that columns may not be smaller than 20 bytes or larger than 400 bytes.
.SS Modes
The mode displayed with the \*L-l\*O flag is interpreted
by the first character, as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lb\*O"
Block special file
.LI "\*Lc\*O"
Character special file
.LI "\*Ld\*O"
Directory
.LI "\*Ll\*O"
Symbolic link
.LI "\*Lp\*O"
First-In-First-Out (FIFO) special file
.LI "\*Ls\*O"
Local socket
.LI "\*L-\*O"
Ordinary file
.LE
.SS Permissions
The next nine characters are divided into three sets of three
characters each.
The first three characters show the owner's permission.
The next set of three characters show the permission of the other users
in the group.
The last set of three characters show the permission of everyone else.
The three characters in each set show read, write and execute permission
of the file.  Execute permission of a directory
lets you search a directory for a specified file.
.PP
Permissions are indicated as follows:
.RS
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lr\*O"
read
.LI "\*Lw\*O"
write
.LI "\*Lx\*O"
execute or search (directories)
.LI "\*L-\*O"
no access
.LE
.RE
.PP
The group-execute permission character is \*Ls\*O if the file
has set-group-ID mode.
The user-execute permission character is \*Ls\*O if the file has
set-user-ID mode.
The last character of the mode (normally \*Lx\*O or \*L-\*O)
is \*Lt\*O if the 01000 (octal) bit of the mode is set; see
the \*Lchmod\*O command for the meaning of this mode.
The indications of set-ID and the 01000 bit of the mode are capitalized
(\*LS\*O and \*LT\*O, respectively) if the corresponding
execute permission is not set.
.PP
When the sizes of the files in a directory are listed, the
\*Lls\*O command displays a total count in 512-byte units, including
indirect blocks.
.PP
The \*LLC_TIME\*O environment variable
controls the format of the date and time.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding an Environment Note.
.SS "System V Compatibility"
The root of the directory tree that contains the commands modified
for SVID-2 compliance is specified in the file \*L/etc/svid2_path\*O. You
can use \*L/etc/svid2_profile\*O as the basis for, or to include
in, your \*L.profile\*O.  The file \*L/etc/svid2_profile\*O reads
\*L/etc/svid2_path\*O and
sets the first entries in the \*LPATH\*O environment variable so that
the modified SVID-2 commands are found first.
.PP
The SVID-2 compliant version of the \*Lls\*O command produces
multi-column output only if the \*L-C\*O flag is specified.
In addition, the \*L-s\*O flag of the SVID-2 compliant
command causes file sizes to be reported
in 512-byte units rather than in 1024-byte units.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To list all files in the current directory, enter:
.iS
ls  -a
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This lists all files, including \&. (dot), \&.\&. (dot-dot),
and other files with names beginning with a dot.
.LI
To display detailed information, enter:
.iS
ls  -l  chap1  .profile
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This displays a long listing with detailed information
about the files \*Lchap1\*O and \*L\&.profile\*O.
.LI
To display detailed information about a directory, enter:
.iS
ls  -d  -l  .  manual  manual/chap1
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This displays a long listing for the directories \*L\&.\*O and
\*Lmanual\*O, and for the file \*Lmanual/chap1\*O.  Without
the \*L-d\*O flag, this command lists the files in \*L\&.\*O and
\*Lmanual\*O instead of providing detailed information about the
directories themselves.
.LI
To list the files in the current directory
in order of modification time, enter:
.iS
ls  -l  -t
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This displays a long listing of the files that were modified
most recently, followed by the older files.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O"
Contains user information.
.LI "\*L/etc/group\*O"
Contains group information.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lchmod\*O(1), \*Lctab\*O(1), \*Lfind\*O(1), \*Lln\*O(1),
\*Lstty\*O(1).
.PP
Functions:  \*Lioctl\*O(2).
.PP
Files:  \*Lctab\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
