.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ltf.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/06 20:34:11 $
.\"
.TH ltf 1
.SH NAME
\*Lltf\*O \- labeled tape facility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Lltf\*O \*Vflag\*O [ \*Vkeys\*O ] \*Vfile\*O ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ltf command"
.iX "magnetic tape" "labeling"
.iX "ltf command" "ltf file"
The \*Lltf\*O
command reads and writes single-volume Versions 3 and 4 ANSI-compatible
tape volumes.
.\" For a description of the label conventions, see \*Lltf\*O(4).
The \*Vfile\*O
argument specifies each file or directory name that is to
be processed.  If a directory name is specified, the complete
directory tree is processed.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
The actions of \*Lltf\*O
are controlled by one of the following option characters
that must appear as the first command-line
argument:
\*L-c\*O,
.br
\*L-H\*O, \*L-t\*O, and \*L-x\*O.
.VL 6m
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Creates a new volume assigning an interchange file name to the
files on the volume, that is, \*Lltf\*O initializes the volume
and writes each named file onto the output file.
Then \*Lltf\*O
assigns an interchange file name to the files being
created on the volume.  This interchange file name is
a name that can be recognized by a system other than this operating
system.  (Not all file names allowed in this operating system are permissible
in all forms of ANSI volumes.)
This file name is 17 characters in length and includes only
capital letters and the \*(lqa\*(rq characters, which are listed
in \*Lltf\*O(4).
It is formed by converting all lowercase letters to uppercase,
converting non-\*(lqa\*(rq characters
to uppercase Z, and truncating the resultant string to 17 characters.
If ANSI Version 4 volumes are being used,
the original file name is preserved in HDR3 through
HDR9 and EOF3 through EOF9.  For further information, see
\*Lltf\*O(4).
.LI "\*L-H\*O"
Displays help messages for all flags and keys.
.LI "\*L-t\*O"
Lists each named file on the specified volume.
If no file argument is given, information about all files on the
volume is provided.  If \*L-t\*O
is used without \*Lv\*O or \*LV\*O (verbose keys), the
interchange file names are also included in the list.
.LI "\*L-x\*O"
Extracts each named file from the volume to the user's current
directory.  If no file argument is given, the
entire content of the volume is extracted.
If the \*Lp\*O key is not specified when extracting files from a
volume written by a DEC OSF/1 system, the files are restored to the
current user and group IDs and to the mode set by the \*Lumask\*O(2)
system call.
.LE
.SH KEYS
.PP
The following optional keys can be specified to enable or disable
\*Lltf\*O actions as specified:
.VL 6m
.LI "\*La\*O"
Outputs an ANSI-compatible Version 3 format volume.  This key can be
used with the \*L-c\*O flag only.
The default version is 4.  For further information, see \*Lltf\*O(4).
.LI "\*Lh\*O"
Writes to a tape volume the file that a symbolic link points to
instead of creating the symbolic link on a volume.  The file
written to the tape now has the same name as the symbolic link.
This key can be used with the \*L-c\*O flag only.  When extracting,
if a symbolic link exists in the current directory that has
the same name as a file on the tape volume, the link is followed and
the file that the symbolic link currently points to is overwritten with
the extracted file.  To avoid overwriting files, use the \*Lw\*O key.
.LI "\*Lo\*O"
Omits directory blocks from the output volume.  When creating a
volume, the directory files are omitted, and when listing or
extracting, the \*LV\*O key is disabled.
.LI "\*LO\*O"
Omits usage of optional headers HDR3 through HDR9 and EOF3
through EOF9.  For further information, see \*Lltf\*O(4).
If a file is created on a DEC OSF/1 system without the use of
the \*LO\*O key, these file headers contain the complete DEC OSF/1
disk file name.  Not all non-Digital UNIX systems are able to
process volumes containing these header labels.
Thus, it is helpful to use this qualifier to avoid unnecessary error
messages when planning to use other systems.
.LI "\*Lp\*O"
Restores files to original mode, user ID and group ID that is
written on the tape volume.  This key can be used with the
\*L-x\*O flag on DEC OSF/1 files and by the superuser only.
.LI "\*Lv\*O"
Displays long form information about volume and files.
Normally, \*Lltf\*O operates with little terminal output.
.sp
When used in conjunction with the \*L-t\*O flag, \*Lv\*O
gives more information about the volume entries than when
used in conjunction with the \*L-c\*O and \*L-x\*O flags.
The following line is typical output from \*L-tv\*O functions.
.sp
.oS
.ps -2
ltf:  Volume ID is:  ULTRIX   Volume is:  ANSI Version #4
ltf:  Owner  ID is:  OwnerID
ltf:  Implementation ID is:   SystemID
ltf:  Volume  created   on:   System
t(1,1) rw-r--r-- 103/3 owner Feb 2 12:34 2530 bytes <cc >D file1
t(2,1) rw-r--r-- 103/3 owner Jun 29 09:34 999 bytes <com>D file2
t(3,1) rwxrwxrwx 293/10 name Jan 24 10:20 1234 bytes <bin>F name
t(4,1) --xrwx--- 199/04 theowner Jan 24 10:21 12345 bytes <asc>D
                long file name
.ps +2
.oE
.IP
The first field contains the file sequence number and the file
section number of the file.  If a DEC OSF/1 system created the
labeled volume, the second and third fields contain the mode, and owner/group
ID of the file.  Otherwise, these two fields are filled with dashes.
The fourth field contains the file owner name.
The fifth field contains latest modification time.  The year
is included if the modification time is older than Jan 1 of
the current year.  The sixth field contains the number
of bytes used on the volume for the file.
If the volume is from a system other than DEC OSF/1, this field
contains the number of blocks with the block size in parentheses.
The seventh field contains the ANSI file type (angle brackets)
and the file record format (one character suffix).
The file record formats are: F (fixed length), D (variable length),
or S (spanned/segmented records).
The eighth (last) field contains the name of the file.  If the
file name does not fit within the 12 spaces left in the line, the name
appears on the next line preceded by a carriage return.
A long file name will be continued over one or more lines thus it is
recommended to keep auto wrap on in the terminal setup.
Also if a file on a volume is either a symbolic or hard link,
information about the linked file is displayed on the next line,
preceded by a carriage return.
.LI "\*LV\*O"
Displays verbose information about directories.
.LI "\*Lw\*O"
Warns the user if file name is in danger of being truncated
when using \*L-c\*O or if it could be overwritten using \*L-x\*O.
Normally, \*Lltf\*O operates silently and does not let the
user know what is happening.  When \*L-cw\*O is specified,
\*Lltf\*O displays two warning messages if the interchange
name and the DEC OSF/1 file name are not the same.
When \*L-xw\*O is specified, \*Lltf\*O displays a warning message
if a file is about to be overwritten.  Another message is
displayed asking for approval to overwrite the file.  If the
user types no or presses Return, the option exists to enter
a new file name or press Return to quit.  If a
new file name is entered, this name is also checked.
Thus, \*Lltf\*O does not continue until a unique file name is entered.
When \*L-x\*O is specified, \*Lltf\*O does not warn the user
if a directory name already exists.
.LI "\*L0 ... 31\*O"
Selects a unit number for a named tape device.  These unit numbers can
be entered when using the default tape name, \*L/dev/rmt0h\*O.
.LE
.PP
The following optional keys require an additional
argument to be specified on the command line.  If two or more
of these keys are used, their respective arguments
are to appear in the exact order that the keys are specified.
.VL 6m
.LI "\*LB \*Vsize\*O"
Sets the blocking factor to \*Vsize\*O.
This specifies the maximum number of bytes that can be
written in a block on a volume.  If no value is specified,
\*Vsize\*O defaults to 2048 bytes.
The maximum size is 20480 bytes and the minimum size is 18 bytes.
The \*LB\*O key need only be specified with \*L-c\*O.
.sp
The \*Vsize\*O value may be specified as \*Vn\*O bytes,
(where \*Vn\*O is assumed to be decimal) or
as \*Vnb\*O, (a multiple of 512 bytes using \*Vn\*O followed
by \*Vb\*O, where \*Vb\*O signifies the multiple of 512) or
as \*Vnk\*O, (a multiple of 1024 bytes using \*Vn\*O followed
by \*Vk\*O, where \*Vk\*O signifies the multiple of 1024).
.LI "\*Lf \*Vdevice\*O"
Sets the device file name to \*Vdevice\*O.  The default is
\*L/dev/rmt0h\*O.  The use of the \*Lf\*O key overrides the
\*L0 ... 31\*O keys.
.LI "\*LI \*Vfile\*O"
Allows file name to be supplied either interactively or from a
specified file.  Normally, \*Lltf\*O
expects the argument file names to be part of the command line.
The \*LI\*O key allows the user to enter argument file names
either interactively or from a specified file.
If \*Vfile\*O is a dash (\-), \*Lltf\*O
reads standard input and prompts for all required information.
All of the file names are requested first, followed by a single return
before the arguments are processed.
If \*Vfile\*O is a valid file name, the specified file
is opened and read to obtain argument file names.
.LI "\*LL \*Vlabel\*O"
Specifies a six-character volume identifier.  The default label
for DEC OSF/1 systems is \*L"ULTRIX"\*O.
.LI "\*LP \*Vposition\*O"
Specifies file sequence and section number at which volume
will be positioned, using #,#.  The first #, represents the file
sequence number, while second #, the file section number.
The file sequence number begins at 1 and is incremented for each
file in the current file set.  Since this implementation of
\*Lltf\*O only produces one file set, the file sequence number
for volumes written with this implementation is the number of
the file as it is written on the volume.  The file section
number begins at 1 and is incremented for each file section on
any one volume.  This number is necessary when files are written
in multi-volume format where the need may exist to split a file
across volumes; however since this implementation of \*Lltf\*O
writes only single volumes, the file section number is always 1 for
volumes written with this implementation.
.sp
If no file arguments are specified, all files from the position
number to the end of the tape are listed or extracted.  Otherwise,
particular files that exist between the position number and the
end of the tape can be listed or extracted.  A warning message
appears if a file is requested that exists
before the position number specified.
The \*LP\*O key cannot be used with the \*L-c\*O flag.
.LE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The \*Lltf\*O command does not support floppy diskettes or
multi-volume tapes.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.iS
ltf \-cfB /dev/rmt0h 100 file1 file2 file3
.iE
.PP
This example creates a new volume for file1, file2, and file3
using device \*L/dev/rmt0h\*O (\*Lf\*O key) and a
blocking factor of 100 (\*LB\*O key).
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Diagnostics are written to the standard error file.
They come in four forms: fatal errors, warnings, information, and
prompts.  The \*Lltf\*O command terminates when it detects
that a fatal error has occurred.
.PP
The diagnostics are intended to be self-explanatory.
Their general format is:
.PP
.oS
ltf: FATAL > a fatal error message
ltf: Warning > a warning or advisory message
ltf: Info > an information message
ltf: a prompt asking for input
.oE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lltf\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
