.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: lwkmanager.1X,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/06 17:12:19 $
.\"
.TH lwkmanager 1X
.SH NAME
\*Llwkmanager\*O \- LinkWorks Environment Manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "lwkmanager"
.iX "LinkWorks Manager"
.iX "DECwindows LinkWorks Manager"
.iX "DECwindows Interface" "LinkWorks Manager"
.sS
\*Llwkmanager\*O [ \*Vflags\*O ]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-d \*Vdispname\*O"
Specifies the display screen on which \*Llwkmanager\*O displays its
window.  If the display option is not specified, \*Llwkmanager\*O uses
the display screen specified by your DISPLAY environment variable.
The display option has the format \*Vhostname:number.\*O  Using two
colons (::) instead of one (:) indicates that DECnet is to be used
for transport.  The default is :0.  For more information, see \*LX\*O(1X).
.LI "\*L\-display \*Vdispname\*O"
This option is the same as the \*L\-d\*O option.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.PP
The \*Llwkmanager\*O command invokes the LinkWorks Manager application.
LinkWorks Manager allows you to control and customize your hyperinformation
environment.  You can create linkbases and objects (linknets, linknet lists,
paths, path lists) within linkbases.  You can also copy objects from linkbases
into your hyperinformation environment.
.PP
When it first starts, \*Llwkmanager\*O creates a linkbase file named
\*Llwk_personal\*O in your home directory, if that linkbase does not
already exist.
.PP
Whenever it is invoked, \*Llwkmanager\*O displays the Environment window,
that reflects your hyperinformation environment.  You can double click
on a linkbase name to open a Linkbase window containing the linkbase contents.
.PP
For more information, click on the Help menu, or use the Help key.
.SH MENUS
.PP
The \*Llwkmanager\*O Environment (main) window contains the following menus:
.PP
.oS
File
Edit
View
Control
Options
Help
.oE
.PP
Each \*Llwkmanager\*O Linkbase window contains the following menus:
.PP
.oS
File
Edit
View
Create
Help
.oE
.SS Environment Window File Menu
The File menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Open Linkbase..."
Displays the Open Linkbase dialog box, which lets you select a linkbase
file to open.  A new Linkbase window is created to display the contents
of the linkbase.  If the linkbase file that you specify does not exist,
the Create Linkbase dialog box is displayed in which you enter the name
for the new linkbase.
.LI "Exit"
Exits the application.
.LE
.SS "Environment Window File Menu"
The Edit menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Cut"
Transfers the currently selected entry (including subordinate entries)
to the clipboard and deletes the entry from the window.
.LI "Copy"
Transfers the currently selected entry (including subordinate entries)
to the clipboard but does not delete the entry from the window.
.LI "Paste"
Copies information from the clipboard into a new entry in the window.
If you have not selected an entry, or if the entry you selected is
not the same type as the entry in the clipboard, the new entry is inserted at
the end of the appropriate segment in the window.
If you selected an entry of the same type as the entry in the clipboard,
the new entry is inserted before the current entry.
.LI "Delete"
Deletes the currently selected entry from the window.
.LE
.SS "Environment Window File Menu"
The View menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Expand/Collapse"
Controls the level of detail in the display of the currently selected
linknet list or path list. If you choose Expand, entries in the list
are displayed. If you choose Collapse, entries in the list are not displayed.
The wording of this menu item depends on whether the selected linknet list
or path list is currently displayed in expanded or collapsed form.
.LI "Properties..."
Displays a dialog box that lets you view and modify the properties of
the selected linkbase, linknet list, linknet, path list, or path.
This item is disabled if you have not selected a linkbase or an object.
Note that this behavior is different from the Linkbase window, in which the
absence of a selection causes the properties of the linkbase to be displayed.
.LE
.SS Environment Window File Menu
The Control menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Activate/Deactivate"
The Activate menu item adds the selected linknets, paths, or lists to your
hyperinformation environment.  The Deactivate menu item removes the selected
linknets, paths, or lists from your hyperinformation environment.
.IP
The wording of this menu item is Activate or Deactivate, depending on
whether or not the selected object (or the last object, if several are selected)
is active. If it is active, the item says Deactivate; if it is
not active, the item says Activate.
.IP
A more convenient way to activate and deactivate objects is to double
click in the Active column of the Environment window.
.LI "Start/Stop Recording"
If you enable recording, subsequent hypernavigation events are
recorded in the selected linknet or path. (Links are recorded in a
linknet; navigation steps are recorded in a path.)
If recording is enabled for a linknet, recording in any other linknet is
automatically disabled. Likewise, you can record in a
single path only.
.IP
The wording of this menu item is Start Recording if recording is disabled
for the selected linknet or path, and it is Stop Recording if recording is
enabled for the selected object linknet or path.
.IP
This item performs the same functions as double clicking the check
mark on (Start Recording) or off (Stop Recording) in the Record column of
the Environment window.
.LI "Update"
Updates any selected entries in the Environment window, including any
invalid entries.
.IP
An invalid entry is one that does not appear in the linkbase listed for
it.  For example, if you delete a path from a linkbase but forget to
delete it from your environment, the Environment window entry for the
path is invalid.  Invalid entries are displayed in a font different from
other entries.  For each invalid entry, you must either update it using
the Update item on the Control menu or delete it using the Delete item
on the Edit menu.
.LE
.SS "Environment Window File Menu"
The Options menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Manager..."
Displays a dialog box that allow you to specify whether the application
starts as a window or as an icon.
.LI "Environment..."
Displays a dialog box that lets you modify the default attributes for
highlighting, link operations, and Go To and Visit operations for all
hyperapplications.
.LI "Save Settings"
Saves the current state of all options settings and the size and position
of the Environment window.
.LI "Restore Settings"
Restores all options settings and the size and position of the Environment
window to their state when they were last saved.
.LI "Restore System Settings"
Restores all options settings and the size and position of the Environment
window to their default LinkWorks Manager state.
.LE
.SS Environment Window File Menu
The Help menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "On Context"
Displays help on how to use the controls (menus, buttons, and so on) in any
open LinkWorks Manager window or dialog box.  Choose the On Context menu
item from the Help menu.  The pointer changes to a question mark.  Move
the question mark to the object about which you want help and click MB1.
Help for that object is displayed.
.LI "On Window"
Displays an overview of the application and help on how
to perform various tasks.
.LI "On Terms"
Displays a glossary of LinkWorks Manager terms.
.LI "On Version"
Displays copyright and version information about the application.
.LE
.SS Linkbase Window File Menu
The File menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Open..."
Displays a linkbase selection box (similar to a file selection box) that
lets you select an existing linkbase or create a new linkbase.  It then
opens that linkbase in the current Linkbase window. Contrast this with
the Open in New... item, which uses a new (separate) Linkbase window.
.IP
If the window currently contains a modified linkbase, you are asked whether you
want to save the current contents.
.IP
If you specify the name of a linkbase that does not exist, the Create a
New Linkbase dialog box is displayed.
.LI "Open in New..."
Displays a linkbase selection box (similar to
a file selection box) that enables you to select an
existing linkbase or create a new linkbase. It then opens that
linkbase in a new (separate) Linkbase window. Contrast this with
the Open... item, which uses the same Linkbase window.
.IP
If you specify the name of a linkbase that does not exist, the
Create a New Linkbase dialog box is displayed.
.LI "Save"
Updates the linkbase that is currently open in the window to reflect
any changes.
.LI "Close"
Removes the Linkbase window from the screen and closes the linkbase.
.IP
If the linkbase has been modified and the changes have not been saved,
a dialog box is displayed asking whether you want to save the changes.
You have the following options:  update the linkbase and close it,
close the linkbase without updating it, and cancel the Close operation.
.LE
.SS Linkbase Window Edit Menu
The Edit menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Cut"
Transfers the currently selected entry (including subordinate entries)
to the clipboard and deletes the entry from the window.
.LI "Copy"
Transfers the currently selected entry (including subordinate entries)
to the clipboard but does not delete the entry from the window.
.LI "Paste"
Copies information from the clipboard into a new entry in the window.
If you have not selected an entry, or if the entry you selected is
not the same type as the entry in the clipboard, the new entry is inserted at
the end of the appropriate segment in the window.
If you selected an entry of the same type as the entry in the clipboard,
the new entry is inserted before the current entry.
.LI "Delete"
Deletes the currently selected entry from the window.
.LE
.SS Linkbase Window View Menu
The View menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Expand/Collapse"
Controls the level of detail in the display of the currently selected
linknet list or path list. If you choose Expand, entries in the list are
displayed. If you choose Collapse, entries in the list are not displayed.
.IP
The wording of this menu item depends on whether the selected linknet list
or path list is currently displayed in expanded or collapsed form.
.LI "Properties..."
Displays a dialog box that lets you view and modify the properties of
the linkbase or of the selected linknet list, linknet, path list, or path.
If you have not selected anything, the linkbase properties are displayed.
.LE
.SS Linkbase Window Create Menu
The Create menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "Linknet List..."
Displays the Properties... dialog box in which you can specify information
about the linknet list and creates the linknet list.
.LI "Linknet"
Displays the Properties... dialog box in which you can specify information
about the linknet and creates the linknet.
.LI "Path List..."
Displays the Properties... dialog box in which you can specify information
about the path list and creates the path list.
.LI "Path"
Displays the Properties... dialog box in which you can specify information
about the path and creates the path.
.LE
.SS Linkbase Window Help Menu
The Help menu contains the following items:
.VL 4m
.LI "On Context"
Displays help on how to use the controls (menus, buttons, and so on) in any
open LinkWorks Manager window or dialog box. Choose the On Context menu
item from the Help menu.  The pointer changes to a question mark.  Move
the question mark to the object about which you want help and click MB1.
Help for that object is displayed.
.LI "On Window"
Displays an overview of the application and help on how to perform
various tasks.
.LI "On Terms"
Displays a glossary of LinkWorks Manager terms.
.LI "On Version"
Displays copyright and version information about the application.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Llwksetup\*O(1X)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
