.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mailx.1,v $ $Revision: 3.6.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/03 14:25:18 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.TH mailx 1
.SH NAME
\*Lmailx\*O, \*LMail\*O \- Sends and receives mail
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.SS Sending Mail
.\"
.sS
\*Lmailx\*O
\*O[\*L\-dinvF\*O]
\*O[\*L\-h \*Vnumber\*O]
\*O[\*L\-r \*Vaddress\*O]
\*O[\*L\-s \*Vsubject\*O]
\*Luser\*O
\*L\&.\&.\&.\*O
.PP
\*LMail\*O
\*O[\*L\-dinvF\*O]
\*O[\*L\-h \*Vnumber\*O]
\*O[\*L\-r \*Vaddress\*O]
\*O[\*L\-s \*Vsubject\*O]
\*Luser\*O
\*L\&.\&.\&.\*O
.SS Handling Mail
\*Lmailx\*O
\*O[\*L\-dinNveH\*O]
\*L\-f\*O
[\*Vfile\*O]
.PP
\*LMail\*O
\*O[\*L\-dinNveH\*O]
\*L\-f\*O
[\*Vfile\*O]
.PP
\*Lmailx\*O
\*O[\*L\-dinNveH\*O]
[\*L\-u\*O \*Vuser\*O]
.PP
\*LMail\*O
\*O[\*L\-dinNveH\*O]
[\*L\-u\*O \*Vuser\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lmailx\*O and
\*LMail\*O commands allow you to read, write, send, receive,
store, and discard mail messages.
.PP
See the section Internationalization under the DESCRIPTION section for
more information about the internationalization features of the
\*Lmailx\*O command.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "mailx command"
.iX "Mail command"
.iX "sending" "mail"
.iX "receiving" "mail"
.iX "mail" "receiving"
.iX "mail" "sending"
.PP
The \*Lmailx\*O and \*LMail\*O commands allow you to do the following:
.ML
.LI
Compose a message and send it.
.LI
Receive a message and look at it.
.LI
Store received messages in your mailbox or in folders.
.LI
Discard messages.
.LE
.PP
The \*Lmailx\*O command uses two types of mailboxes:  the system
mailbox and the personal mailbox.  The system mailbox is a file assigned to a
particular user.  The file is created when mail arrives for a user ID, and it
is deleted when all the messages are removed from the file.  It is
not deleted if you have specified the \*Lkeep\*O option in your \*L\&.mailrc\*O
file, or if the \*L/var/spool/mail\*O directory has no write permissions for
\*Lother\*O.  A separate
system mailbox can exist for each user ID on the system.
The \*Lmailx\*O command keeps all system mailboxes in the directory
\*L/var/spool/mail\*O.  Each system mailbox
is named by the user ID associated with
it.  For example, if your
user ID is \*Ljeanne\*O, then your system mailbox is
\*L/var/spool/mail/jeanne\*O.
.PP
The personal mailbox is a file assigned to a particular user.  The \*Lmailx\*O
command creates a file with the name \*L$HOME/mbox\*O when you receive mail
from the system mailbox.  For example, if your home directory is
\*L/u/lance\*O, the \*Lmailx\*O command creates the file \*L/u/lance/mbox\*O
as your personal mailbox.  The system deletes this file
when all messages are removed
from the personal mailbox.  When you use the \*Lmailx\*O command to view mail
in your system mailbox, the \*Lmailx\*O command automatically puts all messages that
you have read but did not delete into your personal mailbox.  The messages
remain in your personal mailbox until you move them to a folder or delete them.
.PP
Folders provide a way to save messages in an organized fashion.  You can
create as many folders as you need.  Name each folder according to
the subject matter of the messages that it contains.  Using the
\*Lmailx\*O command, you can put a message into a
folder from your system mailbox, from your personal mailbox,
from the \*Ldead.letter\*O file, or from another folder.
.PP
To send a message to one or more persons, enter \*Lmailx\*O on the
command line with arguments that are the network addresses of the people
you want to receive the message.
When \*Lmailx\*O starts, you can type the message using an editor such
as \*Led\*O.  When you are finished with the message,
press \*L<Return>\*O at the end of a line, and use an
End-of-File key sequence
at the beginning of the next line to
exit the editor and send the message.
.PP
.iX "mailbox"
When mail arrives for you from another user, the mail system puts the
mail in your system mailbox (\*L/var/spool/mail/\*Vuser\*O).  The command shell
will notify you that mail has arrived before displaying its next prompt
(that is, notification is synchronous),
provided that the \*LMAIL\*O environment variable is set and the
interval specified by \*LMAILCHECK\*O (\*Lmail\*O for \*Lcsh\*O)
has elapsed since the shell last checked
for mail.  If you are logged in, the shell
sends a message to your terminal to tell you that new mail has arrived.  If
you are not logged in, a message is sent to your terminal the next time you
log in.  The notification message is the value
of the \*LMAILMSG\*O environment variable.  The default message is
as follows:
.oS
[YOU HAVE NEW MAIL]
\*O\c
.oE
.PP
To look at the contents of your mailbox, enter the \*Lmailx\*O command without
flags on the command line.  The program displays a listing of the
messages in your mailbox and allows you to look at them, reply to them,
save them, dispose of them, and so on.
.\"Added user configurable locking info for Sterling.
.\"12/03/93, T. Wolklin
.PP
DEC OSF/1 provides locking for the mailbox files.  The style of
locking used depends on how it is set in the \*Lrc.config\*O file.  For
more information, see the
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
manual.
.SS Reading Incoming Mail
To receive and read incoming mail, enter \*Lmailx\*O with no arguments:
.iS
mailx
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The \*Lmailx\*O command then checks your system mailbox
(\*L/var/spool/mail/\*Vuser\*O) and displays a one-line
entry for each message in the system mailbox similar to the following:
.oS
"/var/spool/mail/geo": 2 messages 2 new
>N  1 amy	Thu Sep 17 14:36  13/359 "Dept Meeting"
 N  2 amy	Thu Sep 17 16:28  13/416 "Dept Meeting Delayed"
?
\*O\c
.oE
.PP
The \*L>\*O (right angle bracket) indicates the \*Vcurrent message\*O, or
the message that subcommands act on if you do not specify a message number or
list of message numbers.  The first field for each message contains a
one-letter indicator of the status of the message.  Possible indicators
are as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LM\*O"
The message is stored in your personal mailbox.
.LI "\*LN\*O"
The message is new.
.LI "\*LP\*O"
The message is held (preserved) in your system mailbox.
.LI "\*LR\*O"
You have read the message.
.LI "\*LU\*O"
The message is unread.  The message was listed in the mailbox before, but
you have not looked at the contents of the message.
.LI "\*L*\*O"
You have saved or written the message to a file or folder.
.LI "\*Vno indicator\*O"
The message was read, but was not deleted or saved.
.LE
.PP
The other fields in the listing (in order) represent:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LMessage Number\*O"
The number that mailbox subcommands use to refer to the message.
.LI "\*LAddress\*O"
User address of the sender.
.LI "\*LDate\*O"
Date the message was received, including day of the week, month,
day, and time.
.LI "\*LSize\*O"
Size of the message in number of lines and characters, including header
information.
.LI "\*LSubject\*O"
The contents of the subject field of the message, if the message has one.
.LE
.PP
From the mailbox prompt (\*C?\*O), you can enter
subcommands to look at, reply to, save, discard, or otherwise manage the
contents of the mailbox.  To display a summary of some of the subcommands
that you can use to handle mail in your mailbox, enter a \*L?\*O
(question mark) at the mailbox prompt.
.PP
Many mailbox subcommands allow you to specify groups of messages upon which
to perform the subcommand.  Subcommands that allow groups of messages use the
argument \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O in the command format.
For example, the format of the \*Lfrom\*O (or \*Lf\*O) subcommand (display
information about messages) appears as:
.iS
? from [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O]
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
In this format, \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O can be one of the following:
.ML
.LI
One or more message numbers separated by spaces.  For example:
.iS
? f 1 2 4 7
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
A range of message numbers indicated by the first and last numbers in
the range separated by a dash.  For example, the following subcommand:
.iS
? f 2-5
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
is the same as:
.iS
? f 2 3 4 5
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
An example of
one or more addresses separated by spaces
to apply the subcommand to messages received from those addresses follows:
.iS
? f amy geo@zeus
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The characters entered for an address need not match the
address exactly.  They must only be contained in the address field of the
messages in either uppercase or lowercase letters.  Therefore,
the request for address \*Lamy\*O matches all of
the following addresses (and many others):
.ML
.LI
\*Lamy\*O
.LI
\*LAmY\*O
.LI
\*Lamy@zeus\*O
.LI
\*Lhamy\*O
.LE
.LI
A string, preceded by a / (slash),
to match against the \*LSubject:\*O field of the messages follows:
.iS
? f /meet
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This applies the subcommand to
all messages whose \*LSubject:\*O field contains the
letters \*Lmeet\*O in uppercase or lowercase.
The characters entered for a match pattern do not have to match the
\*LSubject:\*O field exactly.  They
must only be contained in the \*LSubject:\*O field of
the messages in either uppercase or lowercase.  Therefore, the request for
subject \*Lmeet\*O matches all of the following subjects (and many others):
.ML
.LI
\*LMeeting on Thursday\*O
.LI
\*LCome to meeting tomorrow\*O
.LI
\*LMEET ME IN ST. LOUIS\*O
.LE
.LE
.PP
The special character \*L\&.\*O (dot) addresses the current
message, \*L*\*O (asterisk) addresses all messages,
\*L^\*O (circumflex) addresses the first undeleted message,
and \*L$\*O (dollar sign) addresses the last message.
The character sequence \*L:\*Vc\*O addresses all messages of
type \*Vc\*O, where \*Vc\*O is one of the following:
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Ld\*O"
Deleted messages
.LI "\*Ln\*O"
New messages
.LI "\*Lo\*O"
Old messages
.LI "\*Lr\*O"
Read messages
.LI "\*Lu\*O"
Unread messages
.LE
.PP
All commands that take a message list will default to the current
message number if no list is specified.
.PP
When the \*Lmailx\*O command is processing a mailbox, the mailbox prompt
(\*C?\*O)is displayed to indicate that it is waiting for input.  When
this prompt is displayed, you can enter any of the following mailbox
subcommands.  The subcommand abbreviation in parentheses can be used instead
of the full subcommand name.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L=\*O"
Echoes the number of the current message.
.LI "\*L#\*O"
Allows you to write comments in mail script files.
.LI "\*L\-\*Vn\*O"
Goes to the previous message and displays it.  If given a number
argument of \*Vn\*O, goes to the \*Vn\*Oth previous message and
displays it.
.LI "\*L?\*O"
Displays a brief summary of mailbox subcommands.
.LI "\*L!\*Vshell\(ulcommand\*O"
Executes \*Vshell\(ulcommand\*O.
.LI "\*Lalias\*O [\*Valias\*O] [\*Vaddress_list\*O] (\*La\*O)"
Displays all currently
defined aliases.  With the argument of a previously defined alias,
displays the expansion of the alias.
With two arguments (\*Valias\*O and \*Vaddress_list\*O), creates a new
alias or changes an old alias.  Identical to the \*Lgroup\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*Lalternates\*O \*Valternate\(ullist\*O (\*Lalt\*O)"
Informs \*Lmailx\*O that the
addresses listed in \*Valternate\(ullist\*O all refer to you.
The \*Lalternates\*O subcommand is useful if you
have accounts on several machines.
Then, when you
reply to messages, \*Lmailx\*O does not send a
copy of the message to any of the addresses give in
\*Valternate\(ullist\*O.  If you enter the \*Lalternates\*O subcommand
with no argument, \*Lmailx\*O displays the current set of alternate names.
.LI "\*Lchdir\*O \*Vdirectory\*O (\*Lcd\*O, \*Lch\*O)"
Changes your working directory to
\*Vdirectory\*O.  If no directory is given, it changes to your
login directory.
.LI "\*Lcopy\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O] \*Vfile\*O (\*Lc\*O, \*Lco\*O)"
Appends each message in
\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O
in turn to the end of \*Vfile\*O.  Displays the filename in quotes,
followed by the line count and character count, on your terminal.
Does not mark the appended messages for deletion when you quit.
.LI "\*LCopy\*O [\*Vmessage_list\*O] (\*LC\*O)"
Saves the specified messages in a file whose name is derived from the
author of the message to be saved, without marking the messages as
saved.  Otherwise equivalent to the \*LSave\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*Ldelete\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O] (\*Ld\*O)"
Marks the messages in \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O to be
deleted when you quit \*Lmailx\*O.  Deleted messages are not saved in
\*Lmbox\*O, nor are they available for most other subcommands.
However, you can restore messages that you have deleted while in the same
mailbox session (see the \*Lundelete\*O subcommand).
If you delete a message and either change to another mailbox or quit the
mailbox with the \*Lquit\*O subcommand, the deleted message cannot be
recalled.
.LI "\*Ldiscard\*O [\*Vfield\(ullist\*O] (\*Ldi\*O)"
Identical to the \*Lignore\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*Ldp\*O"
Deletes the current message and displays the
next message.  If there is no next message, \*Lmailx\*O displays the message,
\*Cat EOF\*O.
.LI "\*Ldt\*O"
Identical to the \*Ldp\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*Lecho\*O \*Vstring\*O (\*Lec\*O)"
Displays the character string \*Vstring\*O on the command line.
.LI "\*Ledit\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O] (\*Le\*O)"
Invokes the alternate editor that you can define with the
\*Lset EDITOR=\*O statement and loads \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O into the editor.
When you exit the editor, any changes made during the editing session
are saved in the messages in \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O.
The default editor is \*L/usr/bin/ex\*O.
.LI "\*Lexit\*O (\*Lex\*O or \*Lx\*O)"
Exits to the shell without changing
the mailbox being processed.  The mailbox returns to the condition that it
was in when \*Lmailx\*O was started.  Messages marked to be deleted are not
deleted.  Identical to the \*Lxit\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*Lfile\*O [\*Vname\*O] (\*Lfi\*O)"
Identical to the \*Lfolder\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*Lfolder\*O [\*Vname\*O] (\*Lfold\*O)"
Switches to a new mail file or folder.  With no
arguments, displays the name of the mailbox that you are currently reading.
If an argument is included, it stores the current mailbox with changes (such
as messages deleted) and reads in the new mailbox specified by the
\*Vname\*O argument.  Identical to the \*Lfile\*O subcommand.
.IP
Some special conventions are recognized for the \*Vname\*O:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L#\*O"
Refers to the previous file.
.LI "\*L%\*O"
Refers to the system mailbox (\*L/var/spool/mail/\*Vuser\*O).
.LI "\*L&\*O"
Refers to your personal mailbox (\*L$HOME/mbox\*O).
.LI "\*L+\*Vname\*O"
Refers to a file in your folder directory (determined by the value
of the \*Lfolder\*O option; see \*LEnabling and Disabling Options\*O).
.LE
.LI "\*Lfolders\*O"
Lists the names of the folders in your folder directory (see the
\*Lfolder\*O option in \*LEnabling and Disabling Options\*O).
.LI "\*Lfollowup\*O [\*Vmessage\*O] (\*Lfo\*O)"
Responds to a message, recording the response in a file whose name is
derived from the author of the message.  Overrides the \*Lrecord\*O
option, if set.  (See also the \*LFollowup\*O, \*LSave\*O, and
\*LCopy\*O subcommands and the \*Loutfolder\*O option.)
.LI "\*LFollowup\*O [\*Vmessage_list\*O] (\*LF\*O)"
Responds to the first message in \*Vmessage_list\*O, sending the
message to the author of each message in \*Vmessage_list\*O.  The
subject line is taken from the first message and the response is
recorded in a file whose name is derived from the author of the first
message.  (See also the \*Lfollowup\*O, \*LSave\*O, and \*LCopy\*O
commands and the \*Loutfolder\*O option.)
.LI "\*Lfrom\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O] (\*Lf\*O)"
Displays the headers of messages in
\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O.
.LI "\*Lgroup\*O (\*Lg\*O)"
Identical to the \*Lalias\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*Lheaders\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O] (\*Lh\*O)"
Lists the headers in the current
group of messages (each group of messages contains 20 messages by default;
change this with the \*Lset screen=\*O statement).
If the mailbox contains more messages than can be displayed on the screen at
one time, information about only the first group of messages is
displayed.  To see information about the rest of the messages, use the \*Lh\*O
subcommand with a message number that is in the next range of messages,
or use the \*Lz\*O subcommand to change the current message group.
.LI "\*Lhelp\*O"
Displays a brief summary of mailbox subcommands.  Identical
to the \*L?\*O (question mark) subcommand.
.LI "\*Lhold\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O] (\*Lho\*O)"
Marks each message in \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O
to be saved in your system mailbox (\*L/var/spool/mail/\*Vuser\*O) instead of in
\*L$HOME/mbox\*O.  Does not override the \*Ldelete\*O subcommand.
Identical to the \*Lpreserve\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*Lif\*O \*Vcondition\*O (\*Li\*O)"
.LI "\*Lelse\*O (\*Lel\*O)"
.LI "\*Lendif\*O (\*Len\*O)"
Construction for conditional execution of \*Lmailx\*O subcommands.
Subcommands following \*Lif\*O are executed if \*Vcondition\*O is
TRUE.  Subcommands following \*Lelse\*O are executed if
\*Vcondition\*O is not TRUE.  The \*Lelse\*O is not required.
The \*Lendif\*O subcommand ends the construction and is required.
The \*Vcondition\*O can be \*Lreceive\*O (receiving mail) or
\*Lsend\*O (sending mail).
.LI "\*Lignore\*O [\*Vfield\(ullist\*O] (\*Lig\*O)"
Adds the header fields in \*Vfield\(ullist\*O
to the list of fields to be ignored.  Ignored fields are not displayed when
you look at a message with the \*Ltype\*O or \*Lprint\*O subcommands.
Use this subcommand to suppress machine-generated header fields.  Use the
\*LType\*O and \*LPrint\*O subcommands to
print a message in its entirety, including ignored fields.  If \*Lignore\*O
is executed with no arguments, it lists the current set of ignored fields.
Identical to the \*Ldiscard\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*Llist\*O (\*Ll\*O)"
Displays a list of valid \*Lmailx\*O subcommands.
.LI "\*Llocal\*O"
Lists other names for the local host.
.LI "\*Lmail\*O \*Vaddress\(ullist\*O (\*Lm\*O)"
Activates the mail editor to allow you to create and
send a message to people specified in \*Vaddress\(ullist\*O.
The newly created message is independent from any received messages.
.LI "\*Lmbox\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O] (\*Lmb\*O)"
Indicates that the messages in \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O be sent to
your personal mailbox when you quit.  This operation is the default action
for messages that you have looked at if you are looking at your system
mailbox and the \*Lhold\*O option is not set.
.LI "\*Lmore\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O] (\*Lmo\*O)"
Displays the messages in \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O
using the defined pager program to control the display to the screen.
Identical to the \*Lpage\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*LMore\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O] (\*LMo\*O)"
Like \*Lmore\*O, but also displays ignored
header fields.  (See \*Lmore\*O and \*Lignore\*O.)
.LI "\*Lnew\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O]"
Marks each message in \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O as not having been read.
Identical to the \*LNew\*O, \*Lunread\*O, and \*LUnread\*O subcommands.
.LI "\*LNew\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O]"
Marks each message in \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O as not having been read.
Identical to the \*Lnew\*O, \*Lunread\*O, and \*LUnread\*O subcommands.
.LI "\*Lnext\*O [\*Vmessage\*O] (\*Ln\*O)"
Makes the next message in the mailbox the current
message, and displays that message.
With an argument list, it displays the next matching message.
.LI "\*Lpage\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O] (\*Lpa\*O)"
Displays the messages in \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O
using the defined pager program to control the display to the screen.
Identical to the \*Lmore\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*LPage\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O] (\*LPa\*O)"
Like the \*Lpage\*O subcommand, but also displays ignored header fields.
Identical to the \*LMore\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*Lpipe\*O [\*Vmessage_list\*O] [\*Vshell_command\*O] (\*Lpi\*O)"
.LI "\*L|\*O [\*Vmessage_list\*O] [\*Vshell_command\*O]"
Pipes the message through \*Vshell_command\*O.  The message is treated
as if it were read.  If no arguments are given, the current message is
piped through the command specified by the value of the \*Lcmd\*O
option.  If the \*Lpage\*O option is set, a formfeed character is
inserted after each message.
.LI "\*Lpreserve\*O (\*Lpre\*O)"
Identical to the \*Lhold\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*Lprint\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O] (\*Lp\*O)"
Displays the messages in \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O.
Identical to the \*Ltype\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*LPrint\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O] (\*LP\*O)"
Like \*Lprint\*O, but also displays ignored
header fields.  (See \*Lprint\*O and \*Lignore\*O.)
Identical to the \*LType\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*Lquit\*O (\*Lq\*O)"
Ends the session and returns to the shell.  All messages
that were not deleted or saved
are stored in your personal mailbox (\*L$HOME/mbox\*O).
All messages marked with \*Lhold\*O or \*Lpreserve\*O and those
messages that you did not look at are saved in the system mailbox
(\*L/var/spool/mail/\*Vuser\*O).
If the \*Lquit\*O subcommand is given while editing a mailbox
file with the \*L\-f\*O flag, then the edit file is saved with the changes.
If the edit file cannot be saved, \*Lmailx\*O does not exit.  Use the
\*Lexit\*O subcommand to exit without saving the changes.
.LI "\*Lreply\*O [\*Vmessage\*O] (\*Lr\*O)"
Allows you to reply to the sender of \*Vmessage\*O and to
all others who received copies of \*Vmessage\*O.
Identical to the \*Lrespond\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*LReply\*O [\*Vmessage\*O] (\*LR\*O)"
Allows you to reply only to the sender of \*Vmessage\*O.
Identical to the \*LRespond\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*Lrespond\*O [\*Vmessage\*O]"
Allows you to reply to the sender of \*Vmessage\*O and to
all others who received copies of \*Vmessage\*O.
Identical to the \*Lreply\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*LRespond\*O [\*Vmessage\*O]"
Allows you to reply only to the sender of \*Vmessage\*O.
Identical to the \*LReply\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*Lretain\*O [\*Vfield\(ullist\*O]"
Adds the header fields in \*Vfield\(ullist\*O
to the list of fields to be retained.  Retained fields are displayed
when you look at a message with the \*Ltype\*O or \*Lprint\*O subcommands.
Use this subcommand to define which header fields you want displayed.  Use the
\*LType\*O and \*LPrint\*O subcommands to
print a message in its entirety, including fields that are not retained.
If \*Lretain\*O
is executed with no arguments, it lists the current set of retained fields.
.LI "\*Lsave\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O] \*Vfile\*O (\*Ls\*O)"
Saves \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O, including header information, to \*Vfile\*O
(or to a folder).
If \*Vfile\*O already exists, \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O is appended to \*Vfile\*O.
Displays the filename and the size of the file when the operation is complete.
If you save a message to a file, that message is not returned to the system
mailbox nor saved in your personal mailbox when you quit the \*Lmailx\*O
command.
If a filename is not specified, the \*Lmailx\*O command saves the messages in
your personal mailbox.
.LI "\*LSave\*O [\*Vmessage_list\*O] (\*LS\*O)"
Saves the specified messages in a file whose name is derived from the
author of the first message.  The name of the file is taken to be the
author's name with all network addressing stripped off.  (See also the
\*LCopy\*O, \*Lfollowup\*O, and \*LFollowup\*O subcommands, and the
\*Loutfolder\*O option.)
.LI "\*Lset\*O [\*Voption_list\*O | \*Voption\*L=\*Vvalue\*O] (\*Lse\*O)"
Displays the options that are currently enabled.
If arguments are specified, sets options in \*Voption_list\*O (a list of
\*Vbinary\*O options, those that are either set or not set); or sets
an \*Voption\*O that must be assigned a \*Vvalue\*O.
(See \*LEnabling and Disabling Options\*O for a description of
valid options.)
.LI "\*Lshell\*O (\*Lsh\*O)"
Invokes an interactive version of the shell.
.LI "\*Lsize\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O] (\*Lsi\*O)"
Displays the sizes in lines and characters of the messages in
\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O.
.LI "\*Lsource\*O \*Vfile\*O (\*Lso\*O)"
Reads and executes the \*Lmailx\*O commands from \*Vfile\*O.
.LI "\*Ltop\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O] (\*Lto\*O)"
Displays the top few lines of the messages specified by
\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O.  The
number of lines displayed is determined by the valued option
\*Ltoplines\*O and defaults to 5.
.LI "\*Ltouch\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O] (\*Ltou\*O)"
Marks the messages in \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O to be moved
from your system mailbox to your personal mailbox
when you quit the \*Lmailx\*O command, even though you have not read the listed
messages.  The messages appear in your personal mailbox as unread messages.
When you use \*Ltouch\*O, the last message in \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O
becomes the current message.
.LI "\*Ltype\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O] (\*Lt\*O)"
Displays the messages in \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O.
Identical to the \*Lprint\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*LType\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O] (\*LT\*O)"
Like \*Ltype\*O, but also displays ignored
header fields.  (See \*Ltype\*O and \*Lignore\*O.)
Identical to the \*LPrint\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*Lunalias\*O \*Valias\(ullist\*O"
Deletes the specified alias names.  If a specified alias does not
exist, the results are unspecified.
.LI "\*Lundelete\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O] (\*Lu\*O)"
Removes the messages in \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O from
the list of messages to be deleted when you quit \*Lmailx\*O.  Without a
\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O, \*Lundelete\*O recalls the last deleted message.
.LI "\*Lunread\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O] (\*LU\*O)"
Marks each message in \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O as not having been read.
Identical to the \*Lnew\*O, \*LNew\*O, and \*LUnread\*O subcommands.
.LI "\*LUnread\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O]"
Marks each message in \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O as not having been read.
Identical to the \*Lnew\*O, \*LNew\*O, and \*Lunread\*O subcommands.
.LI "\*Lunset\*O [\*Voption\(ullist\*O] (\*Luns\*O)"
Discards the values of the options specified in
\*Voption\(ullist\*O.  This action is the inverse of the \*Lset\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*Lversion\*O (\*Lve\*O)"
Displays the version banner for the \*Lmailx\*O command.
.LI "\*Lvisual\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O] (\*Lv\*O)"
Invokes the visual editor and loads \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O into the editor.
(This editor can be defined with the \*Lset VISUAL=\*O statement.)
When you exit the editor,
any changes made during the editing session are saved back to the
messages in \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O.
.LI "\*Lwrite\*O [\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O] \*Vfile\*O (\*Lw\*O)"
Appends the messages specified in
\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O to \*Vfile\*O.  Displays the filename and the
size of the file when the operation is complete.  Does not include message
headers in the file.
.LI "\*Lxit\*O (\*Lx\*O)"
Identical to the \*Lexit\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*Lz\*O [\(pl] [\-]"
Changes the current message group (group of 20 messages) and
displays the headers of the messages in that group.
If a \*L\(pl\*O or no argument is give, then headers in the next
group are shown.  If a \*L\-\*O argument is given, the headers in the
previous group are shown.
.LE
.SS Sending Mail
You can use the \*Lmailx\*O command in one of two ways to send information.
You can use the \*Lmailx\*O command's built-in editor to both compose and send
a short message.  You can also use the \*Lmailx\*O command to send any text
file to another user.  The file can be a letter you have written using your
favorite editor, a source file for a program you have written, or any other
file in text format.
.PP
The \*Lmailx\*O command provides a line-oriented editor for composing messages.
This editor allows you to enter each line of the message and then press
\*L<Return>\*O to get a new line to enter more text.  You cannot change the text
after you press \*L<Return>\*O.  However, before you press \*L<Return>\*O, you
can change text on the current line by using \*L<Backspace>\*O and
\*L<Delete>\*O to erase the text and then enter the
replacement text.  Although you cannot
change text on a line once you have pressed \*L<Return>\*O, you can change the
contents of your message before sending it by using the \*Lvisual\*O or
\*Ledit\*O subcommand to edit the message.
.PP
By default, \*Lmailx\*O treats lines beginning with the \*L~\*O (tilde)
character as special while you are composing a message.  For instance,
entering \*L~m\*O on a line by itself places a copy of the current message
into the response, shifting it to the right by one tab stop.
.PP
Other escapes set up subject fields, add and delete recipients of the message,
and allow you to escape to an editor to revise the message, or to a shell
to run other commands.  You can change the Escape character to something other
than a tilde with the \*Lset escape=\*O statement.  To view a summary of
many useful commands, enter \*L~?\*O on a line by itself
while in the mail editor.
.PP
The following list provides a summary of the mail editor commands.  Use
these commands only while in the mail editor.  The editor recognizes
commands only if you enter them at the beginning of a new line.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L~:\*O/\*L~\-\*O"
Escapes to command mode.
.LI "\*L~?\*O"
Displays a summary of the \*Lmailx\*O subcommands.
.LI "\*L~!\*Vcommand\*O"
Executes the shell \*Vcommand\*O and returns to the message.
.LI "\*L~\&.\*O"
Simulates End-of-File (terminates message input).
.LI "\*L~:\*Vcommand\*O"
.LI "\*L~_\*Vcommand\*O"
Performs the command-level request.  Valid only when sending a message
while reading mail.
.LI "\*L~a\*O"
Inserts the autograph string from the \*Lsign=\*O option into the message.
.LI "\*L~A\*O"
Inserts the autograph string from the \*LSign=\*O option into the message.
.LI "\*L~b\*O \*Vaddress\(ullist\*O"
Adds names in \*Vaddress\(ullist\*O to the list of people to
receive blind copies of the message.
Can only be used to add to (not to change or delete) the contents of the
\*LBcc:\*O list.
.LI "\*L~c\*O \*Vaddress\(ullist\*O"
Adds names in \*Vaddress\(ullist\*O to the list of people to
receive copies of the message.
Can only be used to add to (not to change or delete) the contents of the
\*LCc:\*O list.
.LI "\*L~C\*O"
Dumps core.
.LI "\*L~d\*O"
Appends the file \*Ldead.letter\*O from your home directory to the current end
of the message.
.LI "\*L~e\*O"
Invokes the alternate editor using the text of the current message as
input.  (This editor can be defined with the \*Lset EDITOR=\*O statement.)
When you exit that editor, you return to the mail editor, where you can
continue appending text to the message, or you can send the
message by quitting the \*Lmailx\*O command.
.LI "\*L~f\*O \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O"
Includes one or more additional messages in the current message to forward to
another user.  This subcommand reads each message in
\*Vmessage\(ullist\*O and appends it to the end of the current message,
but it does not indent the appended messages.
This subcommand is also used to append messages for reference when
the margins are too wide to imbed with the \*L~m\*O subcommand.  The \*L~f\*O
subcommand works only if you entered the mail editor from the mailbox prompt
using the \*Lmail\*O subcommand, the \*Lreply\*O subcommand,
or the \*LReply\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*L~F \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O"
Performs the same operation
as the \*L~f\*O command escape, except that all headers are
included in the message, regardless of previous \*Ldiscard\*O, \*Lignore\*O,
and \*Lretain\*O commands.
.LI "\*L~h\*O"
Allows you to add or to change information in all of the header fields.
The system displays each of the four header fields,
one at a time.  You can view the contents of each field and delete or add
information to that field.  Press \*L<Return>\*O to save any changes to that
field and to display the next field and its contents.
.LI "\*L~i\*O \*Vstring\*O"
Inserts the value of the named option into the text of the message.
For example, \*L~A\*O is equivalent to \*L~i Sign\*O.
.LI "\*L~m\*O \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O"
Reads \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O into the current message
for reference purposes.
This subcommand reads each message in \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O and appends
it to the current message.  The included message is indented one tab
character from the normal left margin of the message.
This subcommand works only if you entered the mail editor from the
mailbox prompt using the \*Lmail\*O subcommand, the \*Lreply\*O subcommand,
or the \*LReply\*O subcommand.  If no messages are specified,
it reads the current message.
.LI "\*L~M \*Vmessage\(ullist\*O"
Performs the same operation
as the \*L~m\*O command escape, except that all headers are included
in the message, regardless of previous \*Ldiscard\*O, \*Lignore\*O,
and \*Lretain\*O commands.
.LI "\*L~p\*O"
Displays the message as it currently exists,
prefaced by the message header fields.
.LI "\*L~q\*O or \*L~Q\*O"
Quits the editor, aborting the message being created without sending it.
Saves the message in the \*Ldead.letter\*O file in your home directory,
unless the \*Lnosave\*O option is set.
The previous contents of the \*Ldead.letter\*O file are overwritten by
the partially completed message.
.IP
You can also quit the editor by using the Interrupt key sequence.
.LI "\*L~<\*Vfile\*O"
.LI "\*L~<!\*Vshell_command\*O"
.LI "\*L~r\*O \*Vfile\*O"
Reads the named file into the message.  If the argument begins with
\*L!\*O, the rest of the string is taken as an arbitrary system
command and is executed, with the standard output inserted into the
message.
.LI "\*L~s\*O \*Vstring\*O"
Changes the \*LSubject:\*O field to the phrase specified in \*Vstring\*O.
.LI "\*L~t\*O \*Vaddress\(ullist\*O"
Adds the addresses in \*Vaddress\(ullist\*O to the \*LTo:\*O
field of the message.
Can only be used to add to (not to change or delete) the contents of
the \*LTo:\*O list.
.LI "\*L~v\*O"
Invokes the visual editor using the text of the current message as the
input file.  (This editor can be defined using the \*Lset VISUAL=\*O statement.)
When you exit that editor, you return to the mail editor, where you can
continue appending text to the message, or you can send the message
by quitting the \*Lmailx\*O command.
.LI "\*L~w\*O \*Vfile\*O"
Writes the message to the named file.
.LI "\*L~x\*O"
Exits as with \*L~q\*O, except the message is not saved in
\*Ldead.letter\*O.
.LI "\*L~|\*Vcommand\*O or \*L~^\*Vcommand\*O"
Pipes the message through \*Vcommand\*O as a filter.
If \*Vcommand\*O gives no output or terminates abnormally, it
retains the original text of the message.  Otherwise, the
output of \*Vcommand\*O
replaces the current message.  The \*Lfmt\*O command is often used as
\*Vcommand\*O to format the message.
.LI "\*L~~\*O"
Allows you to use the \*L~\*O (tilde) character in a message
without it being interpreted as a command prefix.  The sequence
\*L~~\*O (two tildes) results in only one ~ being sent in the message.
.LE
.SS Customizing the Mail Program
The system manager uses the \*L/usr/share/lib/Mail.rc\*O file to define the
initial configuration for the \*Lmailx\*O command.  The subcommands in
this file override the default characteristics of the \*Lmailx\*O command
for all users on the system.  Although the initial configuration can
meet the needs of most users, you can alter it by creating the
\*L$HOME/\&.mailrc\*O file.  Subcommands in this file override similar
subcommands in \*L/usr/share/lib/Mail.rc\*O when
you run the \*Lmailx\*O command.  The following subcommands are not
legal in the start-up file: \*L!\*O, \*LCopy\*O, \*Ledit\*O,
\*Lfollowup\*O, \*LFollowup\*O, \*Lhold\*O, \*Lmail\*O,
\*Lpreserve\*O, \*Lreply\*O, \*LReply\*O, \*Lshell\*O, and \*Lvisual\*O.
.PP
There are four mail subcommands that are most commonly used to
alter the characteristics of the
\*Lmailx\*O session:  \*Lset\*O, \*Lunset\*O, \*Lalias\*O, and
\*Lignore\*O.  The \*Lset\*O and \*Lunset\*O subcommands enable and
disable mail options, the \*Lalias\*O subcommand shortens how you
address mail, and the \*Lignore\*O subcommand suppresses message header fields.
.SS "Enabling and Disabling Options"
The following are environment variables taken from the execution
environment and are not alterable within \*Lmailx\*O:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LEXCODE=\*VLocale\*O"
The name of the locale for performing character conversions on outgoing
messages.
.LI "\*LHOME=\*Vdirectory\*O"
The pathname of the user's home directory.
.LI "\*LLANG=\*VLocale\*O"
The name of the locale for displaying mail messages.
.LI "\*LMAILRC=\*Vfile\*O"
The name of the start-up file.  The default is \*L$HOME/\&.mailrc\*O.
.LE
.PP
Use the \*Lset\*O subcommand to enable options and the \*Lunset\*O
subcommand to disable options.  Options can be either binary or valued.
Binary options are either set or unset, while valued options
can be set to a specific value.
You can set options by placing \*Lset\*O subcommand lines in your
\*L$HOME/\&.mailrc\*O file.
.PP
The syntax for enabling options using the \*Lset\*O subcommand is as follows:
.iS
set \*O[\*Voption\(ullist\*L | \*Voption\*L=\*Vvalue\*O]
.iE
.PP
The syntax for disabling options using the \*Lunset\*O subcommand is
as follows:
.iS
unset \*O[\*Voption\(ullist\*O]
.iE
.PP
The following is a list of binary options (those that can be set or unset):
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lallnet\*O"
Off by default; all network names with the same login name are treated
as being the same.
.LI "\*Lappend\*O"
Causes messages saved in \*Lmbox\*O to be appended (added
to the end) rather than prepended (added to the beginning).
.LI "\*Lask\*O"
Causes \*Lmailx\*O to prompt you for the subject of each message you
send.  If you respond with a newline (carriage return), no subject field is
set.  This option is enabled by default.
.LI "\*Laskbcc\*O"
Causes \*Lmailx\*O to prompt you for the address of people to receive
blind carbon copies of the message.  Responding with a newline indicates
satisfaction with the current list.  The default is \*Lnoaskbcc\*O.
.LI "\*Laskcc\*O"
Causes you to be prompted for the addresses of people to receive
copies of the message.
Responding with a newline indicates your satisfaction with the current list.
.LI "\*Lasksub\*O"
Prompts for subject if it is not specified on the command line with
the \*L\-s\*O flag.  Identical to \*Lask\*O.
.LI "\*Lautoprint\*O"
Causes the \*Ldelete\*O subcommand to behave like \*Ldp\*O.
Thus, after deleting a message, the next one is typed automatically.
.LI "\*Lbang\*O"
Enables the special-case treatment of \*L!\*O (exclamation points) in
escape command lines as in \*Lvi\*O.  The default is \*Lnobang\*O.
.LI "\*Ldebug\*O"
Causes \*Lmailx\*O to display
debugging information.  \*Lmailx\*O does not send mail while in debug mode.
Same as specifying
\*L\-d\*O on the command line.
.LI "\*Ldot\*O"
Causes \*Lmailx\*O to interpret a period alone
on a line as the terminator of a message you are sending.
.LI "\*Lflipr\*O"
Reverses the meaning of the \*LR\*O and \*Lr\*O commands.  The default
is \*Lnoflipr\*O.
.LI "\*Lheader\*O"
Enables printing of the header summary when entering \*Lmailx\*O.
This option is enabled by default.
.LI "\*Lhold\*O"
Holds messages in the system mailbox by default.
.LI "\*Lignore\*O"
Causes Interrupt signals from your terminal to be ignored and echoed
as \*L@\*O's.
.LI "\*Lignoreeof\*O"
Makes \*Lmailx\*O refuse to accept End-of-File key sequence
as the end of a message or as the \*Lquit\*O subcommand.
Related to the \*Ldot\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*Lkeep\*O"
Truncates the mailbox to zero length when it is empty, instead of
removing it.  This option is disabled by default.
.LI "\*Lkeepsave\*O"
Keeps messages that have been saved in other files in the mailbox,
instead of deleting them.  The default is \*Lnokeepsave\*O.
.LI "\*Lmetoo\*O"
Causes the sender to be
included in the alias expansion, and thus receives copies of messages.
Usually, when an alias containing the sender is expanded, the sender
is removed from the expansion.
.LI "\*Lonehop\*O"
Used when replying to a message sent to several users and prevents
the addresses of the recipients from being made relative to the address
of the original author.  You can use this variable only on a network
where all systems can connect to one another directly.
.LI "\*Lnosave\*O"
Prevents \*Lmailx\*O
from copying the partial letter to the file \*Ldead.letter\*O in your home
directory when a message is terminated with two Interrupt key sequences.
.LI "\*Loutfolder\*O"
Causes the files used to record outgoing messages to be located in the
directory specified by the \*Lfolder\*O option unless the pathname is
absolute.  The default is \*Lnooutfolder\*O.  (See the \*Lfolder\*O
option and the \*LSave\*O, \*LCopy\*O, \*Lfollowup\*O, and
\*LFollowup\*O subcommands.)
.LI "\*Lpage\*O"
Inserts a formfeed after each message sent through the pipe when
used with the \*Lpipe\*O command.  The default is \*Lnopage\*O.
.LI "\*Lquiet\*O"
Suppresses the printing of the program banner when \*Lmailx\*O starts.
(The banner is the line that shows the name of the mail program.)
.LI "\*LReplyall\*O"
Reverses the sense of the \*Lreply\*O and \*LReply\*O
mailbox subcommands.
.LI "\*Lsave\*O"
Enables saving of messages in \*Ldead.letter\*O on interrupt or
delivery error.  (See \*LDEAD=\*O for a description of this file.  This
option is enabled by default.)
.LI "\*Lsendwait\*O"
Waits for the background mailer to finish before returning.  The
default is \*Lnosendwait\*O.
.LI "\*Lshowto\*O"
Prints the recipient's name instead of the author's name when
displaying the header summary and the message is from the user.
.LI "\*Lverbose\*O"
Runs \*Lmailx\*O
in verbose mode; the actual delivery of messages is displayed on the
user's terminal.
Same as using the \*L\-v\*O flag on the command line.
.LE
.PP
The following is a list of valued options (those that can be assigned a value).
The syntax for assigning values is \*Lset\*O \*Voption\*L=\*Vvalue\*O.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lcmd=\*Vshell_command\*O"
Sets the default command for the \*Lpipe\*O subcommand.  There is no
default value.
.LI "\*Lconv=\*O\*Vconversion\*O"
Off by default; used to convert \*Luucp\*O addresses for \*Lsendmail\*O.
.LI "\*Lcrt=\*Vnumber\*O"
Causes the paging program to automatically be invoked for messages
that exceed \*Vnumber\*O lines.
.LI "\*LDEAD=\*Vfile\*O"
Specifies the name of the file in which to save partial letters in
case of untimely interrupt or delivery errors.  The default is
\*L$HOME/dead.letter\*O.
.LI "\*LEDITOR=\*Vpathname\*O"
Defines the text editor invoked by the \*L~e\*O and
\*Ledit\*O subcommands.  The absolute pathname must be given.
The default editor is \*L/usr/bin/ex\*O.
.LI "\*Lescape=\*Vcharacter\*O"
Defines a character to use in the place of \*L~\*O (tilde) to denote escapes.
.LI "\*Lexcode=\*VLocale\*O"
Sets the locale for performing character conversion on outgoing
messages.  The default is \*LNone\*O.
.LI "\*Lfolder=\*Vpathname\*O"
Defines the name of the directory to use for storing folders of
messages.  If this name begins with a \*L/\*O (slash),
\*Lmailx\*O considers it to be an absolute pathname;
otherwise, the folder directory is found relative to your home directory.
.LI "\*Lindentprefix=\*Vstring\*O"
Specifies a string that is prefixed to each line inserted into the
message by the \*L~m\*O command escape.  The default string is one
\*L<Tab>\*O character.
.LI "\*Llang=\*VLocale\*O"
Sets the locale for displaying mail messages. The default is
\*LC\*O.
.LI "\*LLISTER=\*Vshell_command\*O"
Specifies the command (and arguments) to use when listing the contents
of the \*Lfolder\*O directory.  The default is \*Lls\*O.
.LI "\*LMBOX=\*Vfile\*O"
Specifies the name of the file in which to save messages that have been read.
The \*Lexit\*O subcommand overrides this function, as does saving the
message explicitly in another file.  The default is \*L$HOME/mbox\*O.
.LI "\*LPAGER=\*Vpathname\*O"
Specifies the pathname of the paging program to use for the \*Lmore\*O
subcommand or when the \*Lcrt\*O option is set.  If you do not specify a
value for \*LPAGER\*O, the system uses \*L/usr/bin/pg\*O.
.LI "\*Lprompt=\*Vstring\*O"
Sets the command mode prompt to \*Vstring\*O.  The default is
\*L?\*O.
.LI "\*Lrecord=\*Vpathname\*O"
Specifies the pathname of the file (relative to \*L$HOME\*O) used
to record all outgoing mail.
A copy of all the messages you send out is saved in this
file.  Review this file periodically and delete all unnecessary messages.
.IP
The \*Lmailx\*O subcommands do not create directories, so any directories
included in the \*Vpathname\*O must already exist before using
this subcommand.  Do not include the home directory as part of the pathname.
If \*Lrecord\*O is not defined, then copies of outgoing mail are not saved.
.LI "\*Lscreen=\*Vnumber\*O"
Controls how many lines of the message list are displayed at a
time.  You can set this option to show a certain number of lines on the screen.
Each message in your mailbox has a one-line header in the message list.
If you have more than 24 messages, the first headers from the message
list scroll past the top of your screen whenever you display the list.
.LI "\*Lsendmail=\*Vshell_command\*O"
Specifies an alternative command for delivering mail.
.LI "\*LSHELL=\*Vpathname\*O"
Specifies the pathname of the shell to use in the \*L!\*O and \*L~!\*O
subcommands.  If this option is not defined, your default shell is used.
.LI "\*Lsign=\*Vstring\*O"
Specifies the variable inserted into the text of a message when the
\*L~a\*O (autograph) subcommand is given.  (See also
the \*L~i\*O tilde escape.)  There is no default value.
.LI "\*LSign=\*Vstring\*O"
Specifies the variable inserted into the text of a message when the
\*L~A\*O subcommand is given.  (See also
the \*L~i\*O tilde escape.)  There is no default value.
.LI "\*Ltoplines=\*Vnumber\*O"
Specifies the number of lines of a message to be displayed
with the \*Ltop\*O subcommand; normally, the first five lines are displayed.
.LI "\*LVISUAL=\*Vpathname\*O"
Specifies the pathname of the text editor to use in the \*Lvisual\*O
and \*L~v\*O subcommands.  The default pathname is \*L/usr/bin/vi\*O.
.LE
.SS "Creating Aliases and Distribution Lists"
If you send mail on a large network or often send the same message to a
large number of people, entering long addresses for each receiver can
become tedious.  To simplify this process, you can create an alias or a
distribution list in your \*L$HOME/.mailrc\*O file.
.PP
An \*Valias\*O is a name you define that can
be used in place of a user address when you address mail.  A
\*Vdistribution list\*O
is a name that you define that can be used in place of a group of user
addresses when you address mail.
.PP
Aliases and distribution lists are used the same way and defined in
similar ways; the only difference is the number of addresses defined
for an alias (one address) and a distribution list (more than one
address).
.SS "Changing the Information at the Top of a Message"
You can use the \*Lignore\*O subcommand to suppress message header
fields that are normally displayed when you read a message using the
\*Ltype\*O or \*Lprint\*O subcommands.  The four message header
fields are \*LTo\*O, \*LSubject\*O, \*LCc\*O, and \*LBcc\*O.
.PP
The syntax of the \*Lignore\*O subcommand is as follows:
.iS
ignore [\*Vfield\(ullist\*O]
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
Note that fields are specified without a trailing \*L:\*O (colon).
You can include the fields you want to ignore in your
\*L$HOME/.mailrc\*O file.
.SS Internationalization
The \*Lmailx\*O command supports codeset conversion of mail messages
between the mail interchange code (specified by the \*LEXCODE\*O
environment variable) used to transmit messages to other hosts and the
application code (specified by the \*LLANG\*O environment variable) used
by the user. For example, if the mail interchange code is
\*LISO-2022-JP\*O and the application code is \*LeucJP\*O, the
\*Lmailx\*O program converts incomming messages from ISO-2022-JP
to the Japanese EUC character set when displaying them and converts
outgoing mail message from the Japanese EUC character set to
ISO-2022-JP.
.PP
To prevent data loss, incoming mail messages are stored in the mail
folders as received, wihthout conversion.  The conversion takes place
when you display or extract mail messages.
.PP
To encode the mail interchange code information, new header lines are
added to the outgoing mail messages. For example, if the mail
interchange code is \*LISO-2022-JP\*O, the following additional header
lines are added:
.oS
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=ISO-2022-JP
.oE
The \*Lcharset\*O field of the \*LContent-Type\*O header line provides
the mail interchange code information.  For non-ISO codesets, the prefix
\*LX-\*O is added to the character set name for indentification
purposes. For example:
.oS
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=X-eucJP
.oE
For incomming mail messages, the mail interchange to be used is
determined by the \*Lcharset\*O field of the additional header lines, if
present.
.PP
For outgoing mail messages, the following rules determine the mail
interchange code to be used:
.AL
.LI
The \*LEXCODE\*O environment variable.
.LI
The \*Lexcode\*O valued option defined in \*L$HOME/.mailrc\*O or
\*L/usr/share/lib/Mail.rc\*O
.LE
.PP
The application code is determined from the \*Lcodeset\*O part of the
following locale information:
.AL
.LI
The \*LLANG\*O environment variable.
.LI
The \*Llang\*O valued option defined in \*L$HOME/.mailrc\*O or
\*L/usr/share/lib/Mail.rc\*O
.LI
Defaults to \*LC\*O.
.LE
.PP
Note that you must specify a mail interchange code to do character
conversion. There are no defaults.
.PP
All messages associated with conversion are informational only.  The
mail messages in question are still deliverd or received.
.PP
The \*Lexcode\*O and \*Llang\*O options are recognized only within
\*L$HOME/.mailrc\*O or \*L/usr/share/lib/Mail.rc\*O.  Setting these
options within \*Lmailx\*O has no effect.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Environment Note
.\"I am removing this per F. Fraticelli's request.
.\"T. Wolklin: Sterling
.\".SS "System V Compatibility"
.\"The root of the directory tree that contains the commands modified
.\"for SVID-2 compliance is specified in the file \*L/etc/svid2_path\*O. You
.\"can use \*L/etc/svid2_profile\*O as the basis for, or to include
.\"in, your \*L.profile\*O.  The file \*L/etc/svid2_profile\*O reads 
.\"\*L/etc/svid2_path\*O and
.\"sets the first entries in the \*LPATH\*O environment variable so that
.\"the modified SVID-2 commands are found first.
.\".PP
.\"The SVID-2 compliant version of the \*Lmailx\*O command includes
.\"the following subcommands, which are missing in the default version
.\"of the command:
.\".VL
.\".LI "\*LCopy\*O [\*Vmsglst\*O]"
.\"Writes the specified messages to a file named after the author of
.\"the message.  The message is not removed from \*LMBOX\*O.
.\".LI "\*Lfollowup\*O [\*Vmsg\*O]"
.\"Responds to a message and writes the response to a file named after
.\"the author of the message being responded to.
.\".LI "\*LFollowup\*O [\*Vmsglst\*O]"
.\"Responds to the first message in the list.  The response is written
.\"to a file named after the author of the first message and the
.\"response is sent to the author of each message in the list.
.\".LI "\*Lpipe\*O (or \*L|\*O) [\*Vmsglst\*O] [\*Vcmd\*O]"
.\"Pipes a message through the specified command or through the default
.\"command in the environment variable \*Vcmd\*O.
.\".LI "\*LSave\*O [\*Vmsglst\*O]"
.\"Writes the selected messages to a file named after the author of the
.\"first message. The messages are not saved in \*LMBOX\*O.
.\".LE
.\".PP
.\"The SVID-2 compliant version of the \*Lmailx\*O command includes
.\"the following \*L~\*O commands, which are also missing in the default version
.\"of \*Lmailx\*O:
.\".VL
.\".LI "\*L~A\*O"
.\"Insert the string defined by the environment variable \*LSign\*O into
.\"the message.
.\".LI "\*L~a\*O"
.\"Insert the string defined by the environment variable \*Lsign\*O into
.\"the message.
.\".LI "\*L~i evar\*O"
.\"Insert the string defined by the environment variable \*Levar\*O into
.\"the message.
.\".LI "\*L~m\*O [\*Vmsglst\*O]"
.\"Insert the selected messages (shifted 1 tab stop) into the message.
.\"This command is available while reading mail.
.\".LI "\*L~<\*O \*Vfile\*O"
.\"Insert the specified file into the message.
.\".LI "\*L~x\*O"
.\"Exit, but do not save the message in \*LDEAD\*O.
.\".LI "\*L~|\*O \*Vcmd\*O"
.\"Pipe the message through the specified command.  If the command succeeds,
.\"its output replaces the message contents.
.\".LE
.\".PP
.\"The SVID-2 compliant version of the \*Lmailx\*O command includes
.\"the following environment variables, which are
.\"missing in the default version of \*Lmailx\*O:
.\".VL
.\".LI "\*Lasksub\*O"
.\"On by default; prompts user for a subject if on is not specified
.\"using the \*L-s\*O option.
.\".LI "\*Lbang\*O"
.\"Off by default; enables the exclamation point character (\*L!\*O)
.\"to be used in escape sequences.
.\".LI "\*Lcmd=\*O\*Vcommand\*O"
.\"None by default; sets the default command to be used by the \*Lpipe\*O
.\"or \*L|\*O command.
.\".LI "\*LDEAD=\*O\*Vfile\*O"
.\"\*L$HOME/dead.letter\*O by default; path of the file in which letters
.\"are saved following errors or interrupts.
.\".LI "\*Lheader\*O"
.\"On by default; prints the headers of mail messages when \*LMail\*O is
.\"invoked.
.\".LI "\*Lkeep\*O"
.\"Off by default; truncates the \*Lmailbox\*O or \*LMBOX\*O file 
.\"to 0 bytes rather than removing the file when it is empty.
.\".LI "\*Lkeepsave\*O"
.\"Off by default; saved messages are kept in \*Lmailbox\*O.
.\".LI "\*LMBOX=\*O\*Vfile\*O"
.\"\*L$HOME/mbox\*O by default; path of the file into which read messages
.\"are stored.
.\".LI "\*LLISTER=\*O\*Vcommand\*O"
.\"The \*Lls\*O command by default; the system command that is executed
.\"by invoking the \*LMail folders\*O command.  Refer to the description of
.\"the \*Lfolder=\*Vdirectory\*O environment variable.
.\".LI "\*Loutfolder\*O"
.\"Off by default; uses the contents of the environment variable \*Lfolder\*O
.\"as the path of the directory in which to save outgoing mail messages.
.\".LI "\*Lpage\*O"
.\"Off by default; causes a form feed to be inserted between messages that
.\"are processed by the \*Lpipe\*O command.
.\".LI "\*Lprompt=\*Vstring\*O"
.\""\*L? \*O" by default; changes the \*LMail\*O prompt.
.\".LI "\*Lsave\*O"
.\"On by default; causes messages that experience an error or interrupt
.\"to be saved in \*LDEAD\*O.
.\".LI "\*Lshowto\*O"
.\"Causes the message header displayed for messages that you send to
.\"show the name of the recipient instead of the author (yourself).
.\".LI "\*Lsign=\*Vstring\*O"
.\"None by default; provides the string that is included in a message by
.\"the \*L~a\*O command.
.\".LI "\*LSign=\*Vstring\*O"
.\"None by default; provides the string that is included in a message by
.\"the \*L~A\*O command.
.\".LE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-d\*O"
Causes the \*Lmailx\*O command to display debugging information.
Messages are not sent while in debug mode.
.LI "\*L\-e\*O"
Tests for the presence of mail.  The \*Lmailx\*O command prints
nothing and exits with a successful return code if there is mail to
read.
.LI "\*L\-f \*Vfile\*O"
Reads in the contents of your \*Lmbox\*O or the
specified file for processing.  When you quit, \*Lmailx\*O writes
undeleted messages back to this file.
.LI "\*L\-F\*O"
Records the message in a file named after the first recipient.
Overrides the \*Lrecord\*O option, if set.
.LI "\*L\-h \*Vnumber\*O"
Specifies the number of network "hops" made so far.  This is provided
for network software to avoid infinite loops.
.LI "\*L\-H\*O"
Prints header summary only.
.LI "\*L\-i\*O"
Ignores tty Interrupt signals.  Useful when using \*Lmailx\*O on
noisy phone lines.
.LI "\*L\-n\*O"
Inhibits the reading of the \*L/usr/share/lib/Mail.rc\*O file.
.LI "\*L\-N\*O"
Suppresses the initial printing of headers.
.LI "\*L\-r \*Vaddress\*O"
Passes \*Vaddress\*O to the network delivery software.  All tilde
commands are disabled.
.LI "\*L\-s \*Vsubject\*O"
Specifies a subject for a message to be created.
.LI "\*L\-u \*Vuser\*O"
Activates \*Lmailx\*O for a specified users mailbox; short way of doing
\*Lmailx \-f /var/spool/mail/\*Vuser\*O.  You must have access
permission to the specified user's mailbox.
.LI "\*L\-v\*O"
Puts \*Lmailx\*O into verbose mode.  Details of delivery are displayed on the
user's terminal.
.LE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
.IP "1." 4
To save a message to a folder, enter the following
at the mailbox prompt (\*C?\*O):
.iS
save 1 +procedures
\*O\c
.iE
.IP "" 4
The following message is displayed:
.oS
/u/jay/doc/procedures [Appended] 32/947
\*O\c
.oE
.IP "" 4
In this example, message \*L1\*O
was added to the end of the folder procedures.  \*Ljay\*O has
the following \*Lset folder\*O statement
in his \*L$HOME/.mailrc\*O file so that the folder directory where
that folder is kept is already selected:
.oS
set folder=/u/jay/doc
\*O\c
.oE
.IP "2." 4
To look at the contents of a specific mail folder,
enter the following at the command-line prompt:
.iS
mailx \-f +dept
\*O\c
.iE
.IP "" 4
In this example, a listing of the messages in the \*Ldept\*O
folder is displayed.
.IP "3." 4
To prevent the \*LDate\*O, \*LFrom\*O, and \*LTo\*O headers from
being displayed when a message is read with the
\*Ltype\*O or the \*Lprint\*O subcommand, enter the following
statement in your \*L$HOME/.mailrc\*O file:
.iS
ignore date from to
\*O\c
.iE
.IP "" 4
When a message is displayed using the \*Ltype\*O or \*Lprint\*O
subcommand, the date, from, and to headers are not displayed.
However, if you want to display these headers without deleting
the ignore statement
from your \*L$HOME/.mailrc\*O file, use the \*LType\*O, \*LPrint\*O,
or \*Ltop\*O subcommands to display the message.
.IP "4." 4
To keep a record of messages you send to others,
enter the following statement in your \*L$HOME/.mailrc\*O file:
.iS
set record=letters/mailout
\*O\c
.iE
.IP "5." 4
To create a distribution list for your department,
enter the following statement in your \*L$HOME/.mailrc\*O file:
.iS
alias dept dee@merlin anne@anchor jerry@zeus bill carl
\*O\c
.iE
.IP "" 4
To send a message to your department after you have added this
line to your \*L$HOME/.mailrc\*O file, enter the following at the
command line prompt:
.iS
mailx dept
\*O\c
.iE
.IP "" 4
The message you now create and send will go to \*Ldee\*O on
system \*Lmerlin\*O, \*Lanne\*O on system \*Lanchor\*O, \*Ljerry\*O
on system \*Lzeus\*O, and to \*Lbill\*O and \*Lcarl\*O
on the local system.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/var/spool/mail/*\*O"
User mailbox files.
.LI "\*L$HOME/mbox\*O"
Holds saved mail.
.LI "\*L$HOME/.mailrc\*O"
File containing \*Lmailx\*O subcommands to customize
\*Lmailx\*O for a specific user.
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/Mail.rc\*O"
File containing \*Lmailx\*O subcommands to change \*Lmailx\*O
for all users on the system.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lmail\*O(1)/\*Lbinmail\*O(1), \*Lfmt\*O(1), \*Lpg\*O(1),
\*Lsendmail\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
