.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mailq.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/02/10 16:56:49 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH mailq 1
.SH NAME
\*Lmailq\*O \- Displays the contents of the mail queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "mailq command"
.sS
\*Lmailq\*O
\*O[\*L-v\*O]
.sE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The \*Lmailq\*O command displays a list of messages in the mail
queue.  The \*Lmailq\*O command is the same as the
\*Lsendmail\*O command with the \*L-bp\*O flag; see \*Lsendmail\*O for more
information.
,\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Downsized examples for hardcopy
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
.AL 3m
.LI
The \*Lmailq\*O command lists the mail queue as shown in the
following example:
.oS
.ps -2
	Mail Queue (1 request)
--QID---	-Size-	---Q-Time-------	--Sender/Recipient---
AA002508	  3	Thu Dec 17 10:01		root
\*O\c
.ps +2
.oE
.LI
The \*Lmailq -v\*O command lists the mail queue as shown in
the following example:
.oS
.ps -2
	Mail Queue (1 request)
--QID---	-Size-	-Priority-	---Q-Time----	-Sender/Recipient-
AA002508	  3	1005		Dec 17 10:01		root
\*O\c
.ps +2
.oE
.\" End Digital-specific information
.IP
(Output my be formatted differently on your system.)
.IP
The fields have the following meaning:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LQID\*O"
\*OContains the message queue ID of the message.
.LI "\*LSize\*O"
\*OContains the number of bytes in the body of the
message (header information not included).
.LI "\*LPriority\*O"
\*OContains the priority of the message.
.LI "\*LQ-Time\*O"
\*OContains the date that the message entered the queue.
.LI "\*LSender/Recipient\*O"
\*OContains the user ID of the sender (first),
and then the user ID of the receiver of the message.  In this example,
a message also indicates the status of the message.
.LE
.LE
.SH "FILES"
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/var/spool/mqueue\*O"
\*OContains the log
file and temporary files associated with the messages in the mail queue.
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands:  \*Lsendmail\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
