.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: makepsres.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/08 21:10:51 $
.\"
.\"
.TH makepsres 1 "" "" "" "Adobe Systems"
.SH NAME
\*Lmakepsres\*O \- Build PostScript resource directory file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Lmakepsres\*O [ \*Voption\*O ] \*Vdirectory\*O ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "makepsres"
\*Lmakepsres\*O
creates a \*LPSres.upr\*O file containing all the resources in all the
\*Vdirectory\*O
pathnames on the command line.  If the list of directories contains "\-",
stdin is read and assumed to be a space-, tab-, or newline- separated list of
directories.  If the list of directories is empty, it is taken to be ".".  If
all specified directories have a common initial prefix,
\*Lmakepsres\*O
extracts it as a directory prefix in the \*LPSres.upr\*O file.
.PP
\*Lmakepsres\*O
normally acts recursively; it looks for resource files in
subdirectories of any specified directory.  This can be overridden with the
command line option \*L\-nr\*O.
\*Lmakepsres\*O
uses existing \*L.upr\*O files to assist in resource typing.  Its
normal mode of operation is to create a new \*LPSres.upr\*O file containing:
.AL
.LI
Resource files found in the directories on the command line,
.LI
Resource files pointed to by PostScript resource database files in the
directories on the command line, and
.LI
Resource entries found in the input PostScript resource database
files.  These entries are copied whenever the files they specify still
exist and are located in directories not specified on the command line.
.LE
.PP
There are two other modes of operation.  If run in "discard" mode (see below),
\*Lmakepsres\*O
does not copy resource entries from the input PostScript resource database files;
the output file consists solely of entries from the directories on the command
line.  The input \*LPSres.upr\*O files are only used to assist in identifying
files.  If run in "keep" mode,
\*Lmakepsres\*O
includes in the output file all
resource entries in the input \*LPSres.upr\*O files, even entries for files that no
longer exist or are located in directories specified on the command line.
.PP
\*Lmakepsres\*O
uses various heuristics to type files.  A file that is of a
private resource type or that does not conform to the standard format for a
resource file can be:
.AL
.LI
Identified by the user by running makepsres in interactive mode,
.LI
Preloaded into a PostScript resource database file used for input, or
.LI
Begin with the line:
.iS
	\*L%!PS-Adobe-3.0 Resource-\*V<resource-type>\*O
.iE
.LE
.PP
Consult the documentation for your Adobe PostScript system software for
further details on the use of PostScript resource directory files.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-o \*Vfilename\*O"
Writes the output to the specified
\*Vfilename\*O.  \*L\-o \-\*O writes
to stdout.  If the \*L-o\*O option is not specified,
\*Lmakepsres\*O
creates a \*LPSres.upr\*O file in the current directory.
.LI "\*L\-f \*Vfilename\*O"
Uses the specified file, which must be in PostScript resource
database file format, as information to assist resource
typing.  Multiple
\*L\-f\*O
options may be specified.
\*L\-f \-\*O
uses stdin as an input file and may not be used if "\-" is specified
as a directory on the command line.
.LI "\*L\-dir \*Vfilename\*O"
Specifies that the filename is a directory.  Needed only if
the directory name would be confused with an option.
.LI "\*L\-e\*O"
Marks the resulting PSres.upr file as exclusive.  This makes
the associated subroutines run more quickly since they do not
have to look for other \*L.upr\*O files; however,
\*Lmakepsres\*O
must be run whenever new resources are added to the directory, even
if the resources come with their own "\*L.upr\*O" file.
.LI "\*L\-i\*O"
Specifies interactive mode.  In interactive mode, the user
will be queried for the resource type of any encountered
file that
\*Lmakepsres\*O
cannot identify.  If
\*L\-i\*O
is not specified,
\*Lmakepsres\*O
assumes an unidentifiable file is not a resource file.
.LI "\*L\-q\*O"
Be quiet:  do not warn about unidentifiable files, just ignore them.
.LI "\*L\-nr\*O"
Specifies non-recursive.  If \*L\-nr\*O is present \*Lmakepsres\*O does not
look in subdirectories for resource files.
.LI "\*L\-nb\*O"
If the output file already exists, do not back it up.
.LI "\*L\-s\*O"
Specifies strict mode.  If
\*L\-s\*O
is present
\*Lmakepsres\*O
terminates with an error when encountering an unidentifiable file.
.LI "\*L\-p\*O"
Specifies no directory prefix.  If
\*L\-p\*O
is present,
\*Lmakepsres\*O
does not try to find a common directory prefix among the specified directories.
.LI "\*L\-d\*O"
Specifies discard mode.
.LI "\*L\-k\*O"
Specifies keep mode.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.iS
$ makepsres /usr/local/lib/ps/fonts
.iE
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\*Linstallresource\*O(1), \*Lunixfont\*O(1)
.PP
\*VPostScript Language Reference Manual\*O
and the product-specific documentation for your Adobe
PostScript system software.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Adobe Systems Incorporated
.SH NOTES
.PP
PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated.
.PP
Copyright (c) 1989-1991 Adobe Systems Incorporated.  All rights reserved.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
