.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: man.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/30 18:44:15 $
.\"
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
...\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
...\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
...\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
...\"
...\" @(#)man.1 6.7 (Berkeley) 4/19/88
...\"
.TH man 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lman\*O \- Displays reference pages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lman\*O
\*O[\*L\-\*O]
\*O[\*L-M\*O
\*Vpathname\*O]
\*O[\*L-t\*O]
\*O[\*Vsection\*O]
\*Vtitle\*O
\&...
.PP
\*Lman\*O [\*L-\*O] [\*L-M \*Vpathname\*O] [\*L-t\*O]
[\*Vsection title\*O ...]...
.PP
\*Lman\*O [\*L-M \*Vpathname\*O] \*L-f\*O \*Vtitle\*O ...
.PP
\*Lman\*O [\*L-M \*Vpathname\*O] \*L-k\*O \*Vkeyword\*O ...
.sE
.PP
The \*Lman\*O command displays reference pages for the command, system
call, subroutine, or special file you name in the \*Vtitle\*O argument.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 8m
.LI "\*L-\*O"
Does not pipe output through \*Lmore\*O.
.LI "\*L-f \*Vtitle\*O ..."
Describes the specified command, call, function, or special file name if
the whatis keyword database exists.  Performs the same function
as the \*Lwhatis\*O command.  You can specify more than one \*Vtitle\*O.
.LI "\*L-k\*O \*Vkeyword\*O ..."
Locates reference pages by keyword if the whatis keyword database
exists.  Performs the same function as the \*Lapropos\*O command.
You can specify more than one \*Vkeyword\*O.
.LI "\*L-M\*O \*Vpathname\*O"
Specifies an alternative search path.
.LI "\*L-P\*O \*Vpathname\*O"
Specifies an alternative search path.  (Provided for compatibility
with other systems.)
.LI "\*L-t\*O"
Uses \*Ltroff\*O instead of \*Lnroff\*O to format the reference page
if \*Ltroff\*O is available on your system.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "man command"
.iX "reference pages" "displaying"
.iX "displaying" "reference pages"
.PP
The \*Lman\*O program provides online access to the system's reference
pages.  If a \*Vsection\*O specifier is given, \*Lman\*O looks in that
reference section for the given titles.  The \*Vsection\*O specifier
is either a section number (0-9) or one of the letters \*LC L F n l p o\*O.
Also, a specific section
of the local manual can be specified by appending a number to the
section; that is, \*L15\*O would indicate section \*L15\*O
of the local manual.  If \*Vsection\*O is omitted,
\*Lman\*O searches all sections, except 0 and 9,
giving preference to commands over library subroutines, and displays the
first reference page it finds, if any.
.PP
If section C or 1 is specified, \*Lman\*O searches sections C, n,
l, o, p, and 1 in that order.  Sections 0 and 9 are not standard,
but, if they exist, the \*Lman\*O command will search them when they are
specified.
.PP
The \*Vsection\*O argument can be followed by a multi-character 7-bit
ASCII subsection starting with a character.  If \*Vsection\*O
is omitted, or if \*Vsection\*O is a single digit or single
letter, \*Lman\*O displays a matching page in the subsection
that sorts first alphabetically whenever there are multiple
matching pages.  When \*Vsection\*O includes a subsection
suffix (for example, \*L3sv\*O), \*Lman\*O searches only that
section for the specified page.
.PP
The \*Vsection\*O and \*Vtitle\*O arguments can be paired so that
a series of pages can be searched for in a section or multiple
sections can be searched for a page or pages.
.PP
Normally \*Lman\*O checks in standard locations (\*L/usr/share/man\*O
and \*L/usr/local/man\*O) for reference information.  This behavior can be
changed by supplying a search path
with the \*L-M\*O flag.  The search path is a
colon-separated list of directories in which \*Lman\*O expects to find
the standard subdirectories
(for example, \*L/usr/share/man::/usr/local/man\*O).
This search path can also be set with
the \*LMANPATH\*O environment variable.
.PP
If the standard output is a teletype and the \*L-\*O (single minus sign)
flag is not provided, \*Lman\*O uses \*Lmore \-svf\*O command, or the pager
provided by the
\*LPAGER\*O environment variable, to display the reference page.
.PP
The FORTRAN version of Section 3 can be specified by supplying
\*Lman\*O with the section \*L3f\*O.
.PP
If the specified reference page is not already formatted, but the
source file exists, the \*Lman\*O command processes the file
through \*Lnroff\*O using the macro package described in \*Lman\*O(5)
or \*Lrsml\*O(5)
and the \*Llp\*O device.  If the appropriate \*L/usr/share/man/can?\*O
directory or current appropriate \*L$MANPATH directory/cat?\*O
exists, the formatted output is saved there and then displayed by
the \*Lmore\*O command or the default pager to standard output
(unless standard output is not a teletype or the \*L-\*O flag
was specified).  Saved formatted output is displayed by the
\*Lmore\*O command or the default pager.
.PP
If the specified reference page is preformatted, but the source
also exists and is more recent than the preformatted file, the
source is reformatted and the preformatted file is replaced
by the new version.
.PP
When a specified reference page is not formatted or is being
reformatted again, an appropriate status message is displayed,
unless the standard output is not a teletype device (for example,
when the output from the \*Lman\*O command is redirected to
a file or piped to another command).
on all teletype devices.
.PP
If the source file for the specified reference page exists and
the first line of the file is one of the following two lines,
the \*Vtitle2\*O reference page is displayed, assuming it
exists:
.PP
\*L.so man\*V?\*L/\*Vtitle2.section\*O
.PP
\*L.soman\*V?\*L/\*Vtitle2.section\*O
.PP
The \*Lman\*O command will reformat the \*Vtitle2\*O reference page, if
necessary, and save the output in the file \*Vtitle2.section\*O in the
appropriate \*Lcat?\*O directory, assuming the \*Lcat?\*O
directory exists.  Such ".so man" source reference pages
are known as "cross-reference" reference pages.
.PP
If the specified reference page is preformatted and stored in
a "packed" format, the reference page is unpacked by the
\*Lpcat\*O command and displayed using \*Lmore\*O or the
default pager.  The unpacked output is not saved.
.PP
The \*Lman\*O command automatically processes source files
that contain tables or equations through \*Ltbl\*O and \*Lneqn\*O
before invoking \*Lnroff\*O.  The \*Lman\*O command always
invokes \*Lnroff\*O with the \*L-Tlp\*O option to format
output for the \*Lterm\*O(4) \*Llp\*O device.
If standard output is a teletype and the \*L\-\*O flag is not
specified, the output, or preformatted file, is displayed using
\*Lmore -svf\*O, unless an alternate pager was specified or
the \*LMORE\*O environment variable was set to a different
set of \*Lmore\*O command options.  The \*Lvf\*O options are
used in case the \*Llp\*O \*Lnroff\*O device driver generates
special device control codes.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The \*Lman\*O command changes directory to \*L/usr/share/man\*O,
\*L/usr/local/man\*O, or any directories specified with the \*L-M\*O
flag or the \*LMANPATH\*O environment variable.  Some reference
pages assume this change of directory.  Therefore, an attempt to
format some reference pages can fail if any \&.so directives
specifying partial pathnames do not start with \*Lman\*V?/\*O.
.PP
If a matching source reference page exists, but there is no matching
preformatted reference page and the appropriate \*Lman/cat\*V?\*O
directory does not exist, \*Lnroff\*O will format the source file,
but you will not be able to scroll backwards in the display.
.PP
The \*L/usr/share/man/man\*V?\*O directories for Sections C, L, F, n, l,
p, o, 0, and 9 are optional.  Only your system administrator can create
them.
.PP
The \&.\&.\&.\*L/man/cat\*V?\*O directories are not required.  Your
system administrator can create them using the \*Lcatman\*O command.
.PP
The \*Lman -f\*O and \*Lman -k\*O commands fail unless the \*Lwhatis\*O
keyword database exists for the specified \&.\&.\&.\*L/man\*O directory.
DEC OSF/1 does not provide an initial \*L/usr/share/man/whatis\*O file.
Your system administrator creates the \*Lwhatis\*O file by invoking
\*Lcatman\*O.  The system administrator should use the \*L-w\*O
option with \*Lcatman\*O whenever new reference pages are installed.
.PP
The \*L-t\*O option requires the installation of software not provided
by Digital.  Digital makes no guarantees about using such software.
.PP
Source reference pages are formatted for the \*Lnroff lp\*O device.
The \*Llp\*O device driver supplied with DEC OSF/1 is set to generate
output for Digital Equipment Corporation devices as specified in
\*Lterm\*O(4).  If your system administrator changes the supplied
setting for the \*Llp\*O device, all preformatted reference
page files created by \*Lman\*O or \*Lcatman\*O should be deleted
and reformatted for the new \*Llp\*O device.
.PP
Preformatted reference pages may not be in a format suitable for printing
on your hardcopy printers.  To format a reference page for a specific
printer, move to the reference page directory and issue a command such
as the following:
.iS
% cd /usr/share/man
% tbl man1/ls.1 |neqn |nroff -T\*Vdevice\*L -man -h | lpr -Pmyprinter
.iE
.PP
Replace the \*Vdevice\*O argument with \*L/usr/share/lib/term/tab\*Vdevice\*O,
where \*Vdevice\*O is the name of a device listed in \*Lterm\*O(4).
.PP
If the reference page has tables and the hardcopy device is not
capable of reverse line movements, the reference page might not
print properly.
.PP
If the \*LMORE\*O environment variable is set, it should include the
\*Lv\*O and \*Lf\*O flags in order for preformatted reference pages
to display properly.
.PP
However, preformatted reference pages might not be in a format suitable
for display on non-Digital terminals.  To format a reference page for
a specified terminal, move to the reference page directory and issue a command
such as the following:
.iS
% cd /usr/share/man
% tbl man1/ls.1 |neqn |nroff -T\*Vdevice\*L -man -h | more -svf
.iE
.PP
Replace the \*Vdevice\*O argument with \*L/usr/share/lib/term/tab\*Vdevice\*O,
where \*Vdevice\*O is the name of a device listed in \*Lterm\*O(4).
.PP
DEC OSF/1 contains no \*Lnroff\*O support for non-Digital terminals or
printers.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 13m
.LI "\*L/usr/share/man\*O"
Default reference page directory.
.LI "\*L/usr/share/man/man\*V?\*O"
Directories containing \*Lnroff\*O sources for reference pages.
.LI "\*L/usr/share/man/cat\*V?/*\*O"
Directories containing standard preformatted reference pages.
.LI "\*L/usr/share/man/cat\*V?/\*L.z\*O"
Packed preformatted reference pages (if any).
.LI "\*L/usr/local/man/man\*V?\*O"
Directories containing \*Lnroff\*O sources for local reference pages.
.LI "\*L/usr/local/man/cat\*V?/*\*O"
Directories containing local reference pages.
.LI "\*L/usr/share/man/whatis\*O"
The \*Lwhatis\*O keyword database created by \*Lcatman\*O.
.LI "\*L/usr/local/man/whatis\*O"
Local \*Lwhatis\*O keyword database created by \*Lcatman\*O.
.LI "\*Vpathname\*L/man\*O"
Directory containing reference page information to be searched when the
\*L-M\*O flag is specified or when the \*LMANPATH\*O environment
variable is set.  This directory is assumed to have the same
organization as \*L/usr/share/man\*O.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lapropos\*O(1), \*Lmore\*O(1), \*Lneqn\*O(1),
\*Lnroff\*O(1), \*Lpcat\*O(1), \*Ltbl\*O(1),
\*Lwhatis\*O(1), \*Lwhereis\*O(1), \*Lcatman\*O(8).
.PP
Files:  \*Lman\*O(5), \*Lrsml\*O(5).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
