.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: maze.1X,v $ $Revision: 1.2.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/17 23:54:59 $
.\" 
.TH maze 1X "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
maze \- an automated X11 demo repeatedly creating and solving a random maze
.SH SYNTAX
.B
maze 
[
.B \-S
] [
.B \-r
] [
.B \-g 
.I geometry
] [
.B \-d 
.I display
]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f2maze\fP program creates a "random" maze and then solves it with 
graphical feedback. 
.sp 1
.B Command Options
.IP "\f3\-S\fP"
Full screen window option...
.IP "\f3\-r\fP"
Reverse video option...
.IP "\f3\-g\fP \f2geometry\fP"
Specifies the window geometry to be used...
.IP "\f3\-d\fP \f2display\fP"
Specifies the display to be used...
.PP
The following lists the current functionality of various mouse button clicks;
.IP "\f3LeftButton\fP"
Clears the window and restarts maze...
.IP "\f3MiddleButton\fP"
Toggles the maze program, 
first click -> \f2stop\fP, 
second click -> \f2continue\fP...
.IP "\f3RightButton\fP"
Kills maze...
.PP 
.SH LIMITATIONS
No color support...
.br
Expose events force a restart of maze...
.br
Currently, mouse actions are based on "raw" values [ Button1, Button2 and 
Button3 ] from the ButtonPress event... 
.br
[ doesn't use pointer mapping ]
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright 1988 by Sun Microsystems, Inc. Mountain View, CA.
.PP  
All Rights Reserved
.PP
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that
the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that
the names of Sun or MIT not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
distribution of the software without specific prior written permission. Sun
and M.I.T.  make no representations about the suitability of this software for
any purpose. It is provided "as is" without any express or implied warranty.
.PP
SUN DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. IN
NO EVENT SHALL SUN BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.SH AUTHOR(s)
.nf
Richard Hess	[ X11 extensions ]  	{...}!uunet!cimshop!rhess
  Consilium, Mountain View, CA
Dave Lemke	[ X11 version ]		lemke@sun.COM
  Sun MicroSystems, Mountain View, CA
Martin Weiss	[ SunView version ]
  Sun MicroSystems, Mountain View, CA
.fi
.EQ
delim off
.EN
