.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mesg.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 21:38:22 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"build rmifdef
.TH mesg 1
.SH NAME
\*Lmesg\*O \- Permits or refuses write messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lmesg\*O
\*O[\*L\(hy\*O][\*Lyes\*O\ |\ \*Lno\*O]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "mesg command"
.iX "messages" "refusing"
.iX "messages" "permitting"
.PP
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
The \*Lmesg\*O command controls whether other users on the system
can send messages to you with the \*Ltalk\*O and \*Lwrite\*O commands.
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
Called without arguments, \*Lmesg\*O displays the current terminal
message permission setting.
The shell start-up procedure disallows messages by default.  You can
override this default action by including the line
\*Lmesg y\*O in your \*L$HOME/.profile\*O (\*Lsh\*O),
\*L\&.cshrc\*O (\*Lcsh\*O), or \*L\&.login\*O (\*Lcsh\*O) file.
.\" .zA "defect, 8190, R1.1.2, clarified default setting"
.nS note
This default setting for whether the shell start-up procedure permits
messages assumes that the shell is one started as part of a login
session.  If the shell got started by some other means, the default
depends on what that other program has done.
.nE
.\" .zZ "defect, 8190, R1.1.2, clarified default setting"
.PP
Any user can send messages with \*Lwrite\*O if the receiving user has
enabled
messages.
A user with the \*Lsysadmin\*O command authorization can send messages
to any terminal.
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.PP
The terminal device affected is determined by searching for the first
terminal in the sequence of devices associated with standard input,
standard output, and standard error, respectively.  (In other words,
the affected device is not the same as the controlling terminal for
the session.)
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.PP
Message permission has no effect on messages delivered
through the electronic mail system.
.PP
If you add \*Lmesg y\*O to your \*L$HOME/\&.profile\*O, you will be
able to receive messages from other users via the \*Lwrite\*O command
or the \*Ltalk\*O command.  If you add \*Lmesg n\*O to your
\*L$HOME/\&.profile\*O, you will not be able to receive messages from
other users via the \*Lwrite\*O command or the \*Ltalk\*O command.
.SS Arguments
.VL 4m
.LI "\*O[\*L-\*O]\*Ln\*O"
Disables incoming \*Lwrite\*O messages, except by
appropriately authorized users.
Use this form of the
command to avoid having others clutter your display with incoming messages.
.LI "\*O[\*L-\*O]\*Ly\*O"
Permits \*Lwrite\*O messages by all systems on the local network.
.LE
.PP
The \*Lmesg\*O command also accepts the current locale's equivalent
of \*Lyes\*O and \*Lno\*O.  These equivalents are determined by the
setting of the \*LLC_MESSAGES\*O environment variable.  The usage
message displays the current locale's equivalent of \*Lyes\*O
and \*Lno\*O.
.PP
Note that if your current locale define settings other than
\*Lyes\*O or \*Lno\*O, the \*Lmesg\*O command does not accept
\*Lyes\*O or \*Lno\*O as arguments.  This causes an error if you use
a \*Lyes\*O or \*Lno\*O argument to \*Lmesg\*O
in your \*L\&.profile\*O file.
.SS Security Restrictions
.PP
In the trusted configuration of the system, all terminal devices have
owner set to the login user and group set to the pseudogroup
\*Ltty\*O.  The \*Llogin\*O command sets terminal modes to 0600
at login time, so you must explicitly use \*Lmesg y\*O to enable
access from unauthorized users.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL 3m
.LI
To allow only
appropriately authorized users
to send messages to your
terminal, enter:
.iS
mesg no
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To allow everyone the permission to send messages to your terminal,
enter:
.iS
mesg yes
\*O\c
.iE
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L$HOME/.profile\*O"
User profile.
.LI "\*L\&.cshrc\*O"
User profile (\*Lcsh\*O).
.LI "\*L\&.login\*O"
User profile (\*Lcsh\*O).
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\" I don't know if this is Digital specific or not.
.\" I'm just doing what I'm told.
.\".LI "\*L/dev/tty*\*O"
.\"To suspend messages.
.\"End Digital correction.
.LE
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
The \*Lmesg\*O command returns a value of 0 (zero) if receiving
messages is allowed, and returns a value of 1 if receiving messages is
\*Enot\*O allowed.  If an error occurs, \*Lmesg\*O returns a value of 2.
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Ltalk\*O(1), \*Lwall\*O(1), \*Lwrite\*O(1).
.PP
.\" I was instructed to remove this reference because there was no
.\" refpage for the rpmatch(3) function. However, there is a refpage for it
.\" on pearly, so I'm leaving it in.
Functions:  \*Lrpmatch\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
