.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mhmail.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:34:04 $
.\"
.TH mhmail 1
.SH NAME
mhmail \- send or read mail
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B mhmail
[
\*Vaddrs ...\*O
] [
\*Voptions\*O
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.\" .SH Arguments
.\" .IP \f2addrs 10
.\" The address or addresses of the recipients of the message.
.\" Addresses given as arguments appear on the \*LTo:\*O
.\" line of the message.
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "mhmail command"
.iX "sending mail (mhmail command)"
.iX "reading mail (mhmail command)"
The \*Lmhmail\*O program is intended as a replacement
for the standard mail programs, \*Lbellmail\*O and \*Lucbmail\*O.
See \*Lbinmail\*O(1) and \*Lmail\*O(1) for more details of these mail programs.
When invoked without arguments, it simply
invokes \*Linc\*O to incorporate new messages from the user's maildrop.
When one or more users is specified, a message is read from
the standard input and spooled to a temporary file. \*Lmhmail\*O then
invokes \*Lpost\*O with the name of the temporary file as
its argument to deliver the message to the specified user.
.PP
Normally, people will use \*Lcomp\*O and \*Lsend\*O to send messages.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP "\-body \f2text" 10
Specifies the text of the message.
If it is specified, then the standard input is not read.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-cc\ \f2addrs"
Specifies addresses to be placed in the \*Lcc:\*O
field of the message.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-from \f2addr"
Specifies the content of the \*LFrom:\*O
header of the draft.
The address given is placed in the \*LFrom:\*O
field of the message.
The \*LSender:\*O
field is filled in correctly by \*Lpost\*O.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-help
Prints a list of the valid options for this command.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.IP \-mts\ \f2mtsname
Specifies whether you want to send mail to
X.400 users or non-X.400 users.
Two options are valid:
.B \-mts\ x400
to send mail to X.400 users;
.B \-mts\ smtp
to send mail to non-X.400 users.
As with \*Lpost\*O, you cannot mix X.400 and non-X.400 addresses in the
same message; you must choose one or the other.
The default is to assume non-X.400 transport.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-mts smtp"
Specifies the mail system over which mail is sent.
The only value allowed is \f3smtp\f1,
which is the standard mail system.
Additional values are supported only for use with other
mail systems.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.IP \-subject\ \f2text
Provides the text of the \*LSubject:\*O field of the message.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Messages with a null body part will not be sent by \*Lmhmail\*O. You
must include some body text in all messages to be sent by \*Lmhmail\*O.
.PP
For this version, the
.B \-mts
option only supports the value \f3smtp\f1.
Additional values are supported for use only with
other mail systems.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L/usr/bin/mh/inc\*O
Program to incorporate a maildrop into a folder.
.TP 10
\*L/usr/lib/mh/post\*O
Program to deliver a message.
.TP 10
\*L/tmp/mhmail*\*O
Temporary copy of message.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Linc\*O(1), \*Lpost\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
