.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mhpath.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:34:15 $
.\"
.TH mhpath 1
.SH NAME
mhpath \- print full pathnames of MH messages and folders
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B mhpath
[
\*V+foldername\*O
] [
\*Vmsgs\*O
] [
.B \-help
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "mhpath command"
.iX "display folders" "pathname"
.PP
Use the \*Lmhpath\*O command to display the full pathname of
the specified folder.
If you do not specify a folder, \*Lmhpath\*O displays
the pathname of the current folder.
.PP
If you specify a message with its message number, \*Lmhpath\*O displays
the pathname of the specified message.
You can also specify a number of messages, or a range of messages.
If the top of the range that you specify is greater than the last message in
the folder, \*Lmhpath\*O displays as much of the specified range as possible.
.PP
Additionally \*Lmhpath\*O can take a keyword or a sequence name.
The following keywords are acceptable:
.TP 10
\*Lfirst\*O
The first message in the folder.
.TP 10
\*Llast\*O
The last message in the folder.
.TP 10
\*Lnew\*O
The message after the last message in the folder.
You cannot use \*Lnew\*O as part of a message range.
.TP 10
\*Lcur\*O
The current message in the folder.
.TP 10
\*Lprev\*O
The message before the current message.
.TP 10
\*Lnext\*O
The message after the current message.
.TP 10
\*Lall\*O
All of the messages in the folder.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP "\-help" 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
In the following example, \*Lmhpath\*O displays message 3 in the
folder \*L+inbox\*O:
.oS
% \f(CBmhpath +inbox 3\f(CW
/r/phyl/Mail/inbox
.oE
.PP
The following example displays the pathname of messages 2 to 5
in the current folder:
.oS
% \f(CBmhpath 2-5\f(CW
/r/phyl/Mail/inbox/2
/r/phyl/Mail/inbox/3
/r/phyl/Mail/inbox/4
/r/phyl/Mail/inbox/5
.oE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine your Mail directory
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L$HOME/.mh_profile\*O
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lfolder\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
