.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mkdep.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/11/04 09:43:55 $
.\"
.TH mkdep 1
.SH NAME
.PP
mkdep \- generate dependency list from a C program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.iX "mkdep command"
.iX "dependency list"
.PP
\*Lmkdep\*O
[\*L-a\*O]
[\*L-f \*Vdepend_file\*O]
[\*L-p\*O]
[\*Vcc_flags\*O]
\*Vfile ...\*O
.PP
The \*Lmkdep\*O command generates a dependency list file from a C
source program.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Causes \*Lmkdep\*O to append its output to the end of the dependency
file instead of creating a new dependency file.  If the dependency file
does not exist, \*Lmkdep\*O creates it.
.LI "\*L-f \*Vdepend_file\*O"
Specifies a name for the dependency file; overrides the default file
name \*L\&.depend\*O.
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Inhibits \*Lmkdep\*O from appending the suffix \*L\&.o\*O to the names
of object files listed in the output.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lmkdep\*O command uses \*Lcc\*O(1) to compile a list of
dependency files required to build the named C program file or files.
The list is formatted so that it is suitable for inclusion into a
makefile for \*Lmake\*O(1).  Duplicate dependency listings for a given
program are included only once in the output.
.PP
You can specify C compiler flags by including them in the command line;
\*Lmkdep\*O passes all unrecognized flags through to the compiler.
.PP
By default, \*Lmkdep\*O writes to a file named \*L\&.depend\*O; use the
\*L\-f\*O flag to specify an alternative output file name.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example illustrates the use of \*Lmkdep\*O with the
\*L\-p\*O option:
.iS
% cat hello.c
#include <stdio.h>

main() {
        printf("%s\n","Hello World!");
}
% mkdep -p -f hello.depend hello.c
% cat hello.depend
hello:  hello.c /usr/include/stdio.h /usr/include/standards.h
hello:  /usr/include/sys/types.h /usr/include/standards.h
hello:  /usr/include/mach/machine/vm_types.h /usr/include/sys/limits.h
hello:  /usr/include/standards.h /usr/include/machine/machlimits.h
hello:  /usr/include/sys/syslimits.h /usr/include/float.h
hello:  /usr/include/standards.h /usr/include/fp_class.h
hello:  /usr/include/machine/machtime.h
.iE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:
\*Lcc\*O(1),
\*Lmake\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
