.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mkdir.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/14 16:20:20 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH mkdir 1
.SH NAME
\*Lmkdir\*O \- Makes a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lmkdir\*O
\*O[\*L-m\*O
\*Vmode\*O]
\*O[\*L-p\*O]
\*Vdirectory\*O
\&...
.sE
.PP
The \*Lmkdir\*O command creates new directories with read, write, and
execute permissions based upon the permissions established by
the \*Lumask\*O setting.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-m\*O \*Vmode\*O"
Sets the file permissions to \*Vmode\*O, a symbolic mode string as defined
for \*Lchmod\*O, after creating the specified directory.
The \*Lmode\*O argument can be either an absolute mode string or a
symbolic mode string as defined for \*Lchmod\*O.
.if n .PP
In symbolic mode strings, the operation characters + and - are
interpreted relative to an assumed initial mode of \*La=rwx\*O, A + adds
permissions to the default mode, whereas a - deletes permissions from
the default mode.
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Creates intermediate directories as necessary; otherwise, the full
pathname prefix to \*Vdirectory\*O must already exist.
Note that \*Lmkdir\*O requires write permission in the parent directory
for users other than root.
.if n .PP
Each component of \*Vdirectory\*O
that does not name an existing directory is created with mode 777,
modified by the current file mode creation mask (\*Lumask\*O).
The equivalent of \*Lchmod u+wx\*O is performed on each component to ensure
that \*Lmkdir\*O can create lower directories regardless of the
setting of \*Lumask\*O.  Each component of \*Vdirectory\*O that names an
existing directory is ignored without error, except for the last component.
If an intermediate pathname component exists,
but permissions are set to prevent writing or searching, \*Lmkdir\*O
fails and returns an error message. The \*Lmode\*O argument does not
apply to any intermediate directories created when the \*L-p\*O flag is
specified.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "mkdir command"
.iX "making" "directories"
.iX "directories" "creating"
.iX "creating" "directories"
.PP
The \*Lmkdir\*O command also creates
the standard entries \*L\&.\*O (dot) for the directory itself
and \*L\&.\&.\*O (dot dot) for its parent.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To create a new directory called \*Ltest\*O, enter:
.iS
mkdir test
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To set file permissions for new directory \*Ltest\*O in absolute mode, enter:
.iS
mkdir -m 444 test
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To set file permissions for new directory \*Ltest\*O in symbolic mode, enter:
.iS
mkdir -m+rw test
\*O\c
.iE
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
To make a new directory, you must have write permission
in the parent directory.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lchmod\*O(1), \*Lrm\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1).
.PP
Functions:  \*Lmkdir\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
