.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mkfifo.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/27 17:22:01 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" $Header: /usr/doc/osf1doc/refpages/rcs/src/BASE/OSF/man1/mkfifo.1,v 3.2.5.2 1993/08/27 17:22:01 Maryellen_Darcy Exp $
.\" @(#) mkfifo.3c  @(#)mkfifo.3c
.TH mkfifo 1
.SH NAME
\*Lmkfifo\*O \- Makes FIFO special files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lmkfifo\*O
\*O[\*L\(hym\*O\ \*Vmode\*O]
\*Vfile\*O\ \&...
.sE
.PP
The \*Lmkfifo\*O utility creates FIFO special files
in the order specified.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-m\*O \*Vmode\*O"
Sets the file permission bits of the new file to the specified
\*Vmode\*O value, after creating the FIFO special file.  The
\*Vmode\*O argument is a symbolic mode string (see \*Lchmod\*O),
in which the \*Voperator\*O characters \*L+\*O (plus sign)
and \*L-\*O (minus) are interpreted
relative to the default file mode for that file type.
The \*L+\*O character
adds permissions to the default mode, and \*L-\*O deletes
permissions from the default mode.
.IP
The default \*Vmode\*O is \*La=rw\*O (permissions of \*Lrw-rw-rw\*O).
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "mkfifo command"
.iX "FIFO special files"
.iX "files" "FIFO special"
.iX "FIFO special files"
.iX "pipes"
.PP
For each \*Vfile\*O argument, \*Lmkfifo\*O performs actions equivalent to the
\*Lmkfifo()\*O call with the following arguments:
.AL 3m
.LI
The \*Vfile\*O argument is used as the \*Vpathname\*O argument.
.LI
The value of the bitwise inclusive OR of \*LS_IRUSR\*O,
\*LS_IWUSR\*O, \*LS_IRGRP\*O, \*LS_IWGRP\*O, \*LS_IROTH\*O, and
\*LS_IWOTH\*O is used as the \*Vmode\*O argument.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL 3m
.LI
To create a FIFO special file with permissions \*Lprw-r--r--\*O, enter:
.iS
mkfifo -m 644 /tmp/myfifo
.iE
The command creates the \*L/tmp/myfifo\*O file with read/write
permissions for the owner and read permission for the group and for others.
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.LI
To create a FIFO special file using the \*L-\*O (minus) operand
to set permissions of \*Lprw-r-----\*O, enter:
.iS
mkfifo -m g-w,o-rw /tmp/fifo2
.iE
The command creates the \*L/tmp/fifo2\*O file, removing write
permission for the group and all permissions for others.
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.LE
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
The \*Lmkfifo\*O utility exits with one of the following values:
.VL 4m
.LI "0"
Indicates that
all the specified FIFO special files were created successfully.
.LI ">0"
Indicates that an error occurred.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lmknod\*O(8).
.PP
Functions:  \*Lchmod\*O(2), \*Lmkdir\*O(2), \*Lmkfifo\*O(3),
\*Lmknod\*O(2), \*Lumask\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
