.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: more.1,v $ $Revision: 3.3.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 19:12:28 $
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH more 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lmore\*O, \*Lpage\*O \- Displays a file one screenful at a time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "more command"
.iX "page command"
.iX "formatting" "files for display"
.iX "displaying" "files"
.iX "files" "formatting for display"
.iX "terminals" "formatting files for display"
.SS Current Syntax
.sS
\*Lmore\*O
\*O[\*L-cdefhipsuvz\*O]
[ \*L-n\ \*Vnumber\*O ]
\*O[\*L+\*Vline_number\*O |
\*O[\*L-t \*Vtagstring\*O]
\*L+/\*Vpattern\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O
\&...]
.sE
.PP
.sS
\*Lpage\*O
\*O[\*L-cdefhipsuvz\*O]
[ \*L-n\ \*Vnumber\*O ]
\*O[\*L+\*Vline_number\*O |
\*L+/\*Vpattern\*O]
\*O[\*L-t \*Vtagstring\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O
\&...]
.sE
.SS Obsolescent Syntax
.sS
\*Lmore\*O
\*O[\*L-cdefhipsuvz\*O]
\*O[\*L-\*Vnumber\*O ]
\*O[\*L+G\*O]
\*O[\*L+\*Vline_number\*O |
\*L+/\*Vpattern\*O]
\*O[\*L-t \*Vtagstring\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O
\&...]
.sE
.PP
.sS
\*Lpage\*O
\*O[\*L-cdefhipsuvz\*O]
\*O[\*L-\*Vnumber\*O ]
\*O[\*L+G\*O]
\*O[\*L+\*Vline_number\*O |
\*L+/\*Vpattern\*O]
\*O[\*L-t \*Vtagstring\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O
\&...]
.sE

.PP
The \*Lmore\*O command invokes a filter that allows examination of
continuous text, one screenful at a time, on a soft-copy terminal.  The
\*Lpage\*O command is equivalent to \*Lmore\*O, but erases the screen
before displaying each screenful.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Starts each screenful at the top of the screen and erases existing output
on each line before displaying a new line.  This avoids scrolling the
screen, making it easier to read while \*Lmore\*O is writing.  It is also
faster than scrolling on many terminals.  This flag is ignored if the
terminal does not have the ability to clear to the end of a line.
This option does not work with \*L-h\*O.
.LI "\*L-d\*O"
Prompts you to continue, quit, or obtain help after each screenful of text.
.LI "\*L-e\*O"
Exits immediately after writing the last line of the last file in the argument list.
.LI "\*L-f\*O"
Counts logical lines rather than screen lines; that is, long lines are not
folded.  This flag is recommended if \*Lnroff\*O output is piped through
\*Lul\*O, or if \*Lmore\*O reads any text that contains escape sequences.
Escape sequences contain characters that would ordinarily occupy screen
positions, but which do not print when they are sent to the terminal as
part of an escape sequences.  Thus \*Lmore\*O may think that lines are
longer than they actually are, and fold lines erroneously.
.LI "\*L-h\*O"
Help mode.
.LI "\*L-i\*O"
Perform pattern matching in searches without regard to case.
.LI "\*L-n\*O\ number"
Specifies the number of lines per screenful.  The \*Lnumber\*O argument is a
positive decimal integer.  The \*L-n\*O option overrides any values obtained from
the environment.
.\"LI "\*L-N\*O"
.\"Display line numbers.
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
For each file examined, initially execute the \*Lmore\*O command in the
\*Lcommand\*O argument.  If the command is a positioning command, such as a
line number or a regular expression search, set the current position to
represent the final results of the command, without writing any
intermediate lines of the file.  For example, the two commands:
.iS
\*Lmore -p 1000j file\*O
.sp
\*Lmore -p 1000G file\*O
.iE
would be equivalent and start the display with the current position at line
1000, bypassing the lines that j would write and scroll off the screen if
it had been issued during the file examination.  If the positioning comman
is unsuccessful, the first line in the file will be the current position.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Squeezes multiple empty lines from the output, producing only one empty
line.  Especially helpful when viewing \*Lnroff\*O output, this flag
maximizes the amount of useful information present on the screen.
.LI "\*L-u\*O"
Suppresses processing of underlined text for terminal display.  Normally,
\*Lmore\*O handles underlining in a manner appropriate to the particular
terminal: if the terminal can perform underlining or has a highlight mode,
\*Lmore\*O outputs appropriate escape sequences to enable underlining or
highlight mode for underlined information in the source file.
.LI "\*L-t\*O\ tagstring"
Write the screenful of the file containing the tag named by the
\*Ltagstring\*O argument.  See the \*Lctags\*O utility.
.LI "\*L-v\*O"
Does not display nonprinting characters graphically.  Without this flag,
all non-ASCII and control characters (except \*L<Tab>\*O,
\*L<Backspace>\*O, and \*L<Return>\*O) are displayed visibly in the form
\*L^X\*O for \*L<Ctrl-x>\*O, or \*LM-x\*O for non-ASCII character \*Lx\*O.
.LI "\*L-z\*O"
Same as if the \*L-v\*O flag is not given, but in addition,
\*L<Backspace>\*O is displayed as \*L^H\*O, \*L<Return>\*O as \*L^M\*O, and
\*L<Tab>\*O as \*L^I\*O.
.LI "\*L\(pl\*Vline_number\*O"
Starts up at \*Vline_number\*O.
.LI "\*L+G\*O"
Starts up at the last screenful in the file.
This gives you an opportunity to scroll or page backward through the file.
.LI "\*L\(pl/\*Vpattern\*O"
Starts up at the line containing the regular expression \*Vpattern\*O.
.LI "\*L-\*Vnumber\*O"
Sets the number of lines in the display window to \*Vnumber\*O.  The
default is two lines less than the number of lines displayed by the
terminal; on a screen that displays 24 lines, the default is 22.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lmore\*O utility reads files and either writes them to the terminal
on a page-by-page basis or filters them to standard output.  If standard
output is not a terminal device, all input files are copied to standard
output in their entirety, without modification.  If standard output is a
terminal device, the files will be written a number of lines (one
screenful) at a time under the control of user commands.
.PP
The number of lines available per screen is determined by the -n option, if
present or by examining values in the environment (see ENVIRONMENT
VARIABLES).  If neither method yields a number, an unspecified number of
lines will be used.  The actual number of lines written will be one less
than this number, as the last line of the screen will be used to write a
user prompt and user input.  If the number of lines available per screen is
less than four, the results are undefined.
.PP
If the terminal type can be determined, the \*Lmore\*O command looks in the
\*Lterminfo\*O database to determine terminal characteristics, and to
determine the default window size.  On a terminal capable of displaying 24
lines, the default window size is 22 lines.
.PP
If the program is invoked as \*Lpage,\*O then the screen is cleared before
each screenful is printed (but only if a full screenful is being printed),
and \*Vk\*O minus 1 rather than \*Vk\*O minus 2 lines are printed in each
screenful, where \*Vk\*O is the number of lines the terminal can display.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following is a sample use of \*Lmore\*O in previewing \*Lnroff\*O
output:
.iS
nroff -ms doc.n | more -s -f
.iE
\*O\c
.SH Subcommands
.PP
The \*Lmore\*O command provides the following subcommands that you can type
when \*Lmore\*O pauses.  These commands are designed to be similar to the
commands supported by the \*Lvi\*O editor.  (\*Vi\*O is an optional integer
argument, defaulting to 1.)  Regular expressions (as referred to here) are
described under \*Lgrep\*O.
.VL 7m
.LI "\*Vi\*L<Return>\*O"
.LI "\*Vi\*Lj\*O"
.LI "\*Vi\*L<Ctrl-e>\*O"
All three forms display \*Vi\*O more lines.
.LI "\*Vi\*L<Space>\*O"
Displays \*Vi\*O more lines, or another screenful if \*Vi\*O is not
specified.
.LI "\*Vi\*L<Ctrl-d>\*O"
Scrolls one-half screen forward (displays the next \*Vk/2\*O lines, where
\*Vk\*O is the number of lines displayed by the \*L<Space>\*O command).  If
\*Vi\*O is specified, then the scroll size is set to \*Vi\*O.
.LI "\*Ld\*O"
Same as \*L<Ctrl-d>\*O.
.LI "\*Vi\*L<Ctrl-u>\*O"
Scrolls one-half screen backward.  If \*Vi\*O is specified, then the scroll
size is set to \*Vi\*O.  Note that if your line kill character is
\*L<Ctrl-u>\*O, then you must use the \*Lu\*O command to scroll backward.
.LI "\*Vi\*Lu\*O"
Same as \*L<Ctrl-u>\*O.
.LI "\*Vi\*Lk\*O"
.LI "\*Vi\*L<Ctrl-y>\*O"
Both forms scroll back \*Vi\*O lines.
.LI "\*L\&\*Vi\*Lz\*O"
Displays \*Vi\*O more lines.
\*Vi\*O.
.LI "\*Vi\*Lg\*O"
Goes to line \*Vi\*O and displays a screenful, making line \*Vi\*O the top
line on the screen.  If \*Vi\*O is not specified, then \*Lmore\*O displays
the first screenful in the file.
.LI "\*Vi\*Ls\*O"
Skips \*Vi\*O  screensful and prints a screenful.
.LI "\*Vi\*Lf\*O"
Skips \*Vi\*O lines and prints a screenful.
.LI "\*Vi\*Lb\*O"
Skips back \*Vi\*O screenfuls and prints a screenful.
.LI "\*Vi\*L<Ctrl-b>\*O"
Same as \*Lb\*O.
.LI "\*Lq\*O, \*LQ\*O"
Exits from \*Lmore.\*O
.LI "\*L=\*O"
Displays the current line number.
.LI "\*Lv\*O"
Starts up the \*Lvi\*O editor at the current line.
.LI "\*Lh\*O"
Displays a description of all the \*Lmore\*O subcommands.
.LI "\*Vi\*L/\*Vexpression\*O"
Searches for the \*Vi\*Oth occurrence of the regular expression
\*Vexpression\*O.  If there are less than \*Vi\*O occurrences of
\*Vexpression\*O, and the input is a file rather than a pipe, then the
position in the file remains unchanged.  Otherwise, a screenful is
displayed, starting with the line matching \*Vexpression\*O.  You can use
Erase and Kill characters to edit the regular expression, which must be
terminated by pressing \*L<Return>\*O (with no trailing \*L/\*O character).
Erasing back past the first column cancels the search command.  If
\*Vexpression\*O is null, \*Lmore\*O uses the last regular expression
entered.
.LI "\*Vi\*L?\*Vexpression\*O"
Same as \*L/\*O, but searches backward in the file.
.LI "\*Vi\*Ln\*O"
Searches for the \*Vi\*Oth occurrence of the last regular expression
entered.
.LI "\*Vi\*LN\*O"
Searches for the \*Vi\*Oth occurrence of the last regular expression
entered, but reverses the direction of that search.
.LI "\*L\&'\*O (single quote)"
Returns to the point from which the last search started.  If no search was
performed in the current file, returns to the beginning of the file.
.LI "\*L!\*Vcommand\*O"
Invokes a shell with \*Vcommand\*O.  The \*L%\*O (percent sign) and \*L!\*O
(exclamation point) characters in \*Vcommand\*O are replaced with the
current filename and the previous shell command, respectively.  If there is
no current filename, \*L%\*O is not expanded.  The sequences \*L\e%\*O and
\*L\e!\*O are replaced by \*L%\*O and \*L!\*O, respectively.
.LI "\*Vi\*L:n\*O"
Skips to the \*Vi\*Oth next file specified in the command line.
.LI "\*Vi\*L:p\*O"
Skips to the \*Vi\*Oth previous file given in the command line.  If this
command is given during display of a file, \*Lmore\*O returns to the
beginning of the file.  If \*Lmore\*O is not reading from a file, the bell
is rung and nothing else happens.
.LI "\*L:f\*O"
Displays the current filename and line number.
.LI "\*L:q\*O, \*L:Q\*O"
Exits from \*Lmore\*O (same as \*Lq\*O or \*LQ\*O).
.LI "\*L\&.\*O"
Repeats the previous command.
.LI "\*L<Ctrl-l>\*O"
Redraws the screen.
.LI "\*Lh\*O"
Displays help information.
.LE
.PP
The commands take effect immediately; it is not necessary to type a
carriage-return.  Up to the time when the command character itself is
given, you can enter the line Kill character to cancel the numerical
argument being formed.  In addition, you can enter the Erase character to
redisplay the prompt.
.PP
At any time when output is being sent to the terminal, you can press
\*Lq\*O.  The \*Lmore\*O command stops sending output, and displays the
usual prompt.  You can then enter one of the preceding commands in the
normal manner.  Some output is lost when this is done, due to the fact that
any characters waiting in the terminal's output queue are flushed when the
\*LQUIT\*O signal occurs.
.PP
The terminal is set to \*Lnoecho\*O mode by this program so that the output
can be continuous.  Thus, subcommands you enter do not show on your
terminal, except for the \*L/\*O (slash), \*L?\*O (question mark), and
\*L!\*O (exclamation point) commands.
.SH Environment Variables
.PP
Normally, you place the command sequence that sets up the environment
variables in the \*L\&.cshrc\*O, \*L\&.login\*O, \*L\&.kshrc\*O, or
\*L\&.profile\*O files.  Setting them in \*L\&.login\*O or \*L\&.profile\*O
will prevent possibly unnecessary re-evaluation of the variable
assignments.  Since it is unlikely that you will ever want to remotely execute
\*Lmore\*O (for example, \*Lrsh\*O <host> \*Lmore\*O), it is not as important to place
them in the \*L\&.cshrc\*O, or \*L\&.kshrc\*O files.
.PP
\*LLINES\*O
.sp
The \*LLINES\*O variable overrides the system-selected vertical screen
size, used as the number of lines in a screenful.  The -n option takes
precedence over the \*LLINES\*O variable for determining the number of
lines in a screenful.
.PP
\*LMORE\*O
.sp
The \*Lmore\*O command looks in the \*LMORE\*O environment variable to
preset any desired flags; for example, assume that you prefer to view files
using the \*L-c\*O and \*L-e\*O flags.  The \*Lcsh\*O command \*Lsetenv
MORE -c -e\*O, or the \*Lksh\*O or \*Lsh\*O command sequence \*LMORE='-c -e' ;
export MORE\*O would cause all invocations of \*Lmore\*O, including
invocations by programs such as \*Lman\*O and \*Lmesg\*O, to use this mode.
.PP
The \*LMORE\*O variable no longer supports options without hyphens.  It
only supports white space separated hyphenated variables. Any command-line
options are processed after those in the \*LMORE\*O variable, as if the
command line were:
.iS
more $MORE options operands
.iE
.PP
\*LTERM\*O
.sp
The \*LTERM\*O variable determines the name of the terminal type.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 14m
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/terminfo/?/*\*O"
Terminal information database.
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/more.help\*O"
Help file.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lcat\*O(1), \*Lcsh\*O(1),
\*Lgrep\*O(1)/\*Legrep\*O(1)/\*Lfgrep\*O(1), \*Lksh\*O(1), \*Lman\*O(1),
\*Lnroff\*O(1), \*Lpg\*O(1), \*Lscript\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1)
.PP
Files: \*Lterminfo\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
