.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: msgchk.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/02/04 16:09:46 $
.\"
.TH msgchk 1
.SH NAME
msgchk \- check for messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Lmsgchk\*O
[\ \*L\-help\*O\ ]
[\ \*L\-nodate\*O\ ]
[\ \*L\-notify\*O
\*Vall|mail|nomail\*O\ ]
.\" [\ \*L\-[no]rpop\*O\ ]
.\" [\ \*L\-source\*O \*Vsourcename\*O\ ]
[\ \*Vusers\ ...\*O\ ]
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.\" .SH Arguments
.\" .IP \*Vusers\*O 10
.\" Name of the user or users whose maildrops you are checking.
.\" You can use
.\" \*Lmsgchk\*O
.\" to check on the status of other users' maildrops
.\" by specifying their user names.
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "msgchk command"
.iX "messages" "checking for"
The
\*Lmsgchk\*O
program checks all known mail drops for mail that is waiting
for you.
It displays whether you have mail waiting to be read or not
and shows the date that you last read your mail.
.\"
.\" ***Old Arguments info
.\"
.PP
You can check other user's maildrops by specifying their user
names as the
\*Vusers\*O
argument on the command line.
.\"
.\" ***End of old Arguments info
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP \-help 10
Prints a list of the valid options for this command.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-date 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nodate 10
.PD
Prints the date when you last read your mail.
This is the default behavior of
\*Lmsgchk\*O.
The
\*L\-nodate\*O
option can be used of you do not want to print this date.
.\"
.IP "\-notify \*Vall\*O|\*Vmail\*O|\*Vnomail\*O" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-nonotify \*Vall\*O|\*Vmail\*O|\*Vnomail\*O" 10
.PD
Indicates under what circumstances
\*Lmsgchk\*O
should produce a message.
There are three legal values:
\*Lall\*O,
\*Lmail\*O,
and
\*Lnomail\*O.
The default is
\*L\-notify\ all\*O,
which reports the status
of the maildrop regardless of whether it has mail in it or not.
The
\*L\-notify\ mail\*O
option reports the status of the maildrop
only if there is mail waiting.
The
\*L\-notify\ nomail\*O
option reports the status of the maildrop
only if there is no mail in it.
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.IP \-rpop 10
.PD 0
.IP \-norpop 10
.PD
Indicates whether incoming mail should be carried over
a trusted or non-trusted link.
If you use the
\*L\-source\ x400\*O
option, the incoming X.400 mail
can be carried over a trusted or a non-trusted link.
In the non-trusted case, the mail system prompts
you to supply a password.
You can specify a trusted link by using the
\*L\-rpop\*O
option, or a non-trusted link by using
\*L\-norpop\*O.
.\"
.IP \-source\ \*Vsourcename\*O
Specifies which sources
\*Lmsgchk\*O
should check for incoming mail.
The option recognizes two arguments:
\*L\-source\ file\*O
checks the maildrop; and
\*L\-source\ x400\*O
checks for incoming mail sent over the X.400 transport system.
You can specify one or both of these options with the same command.
In this case,
\*Lmsgchk\*O
will display a separate message for each option.
If you do not specify a
\*L\-source\*O
option,
\*Lmsgchk\*O
will check all known sources.
So
\*Lmsgchk\*O
notifies you of all incoming mail,
whatever source it comes from.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.IP "\-source file"
Specifies the source which are checked for mail.
The only value allowed is
\*Lfile\*O,
which is the user's maildrop.
Additional values are supported only for use with other
mail systems.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
\*Lmsgchk\*O
does not understand the
\*L$MAILDROP\*O
environmental variable.
If mail is fetched from a location other than
\*L/usr/spool/mail/$USER\*O,
\*Lmsgchk\*O
will
not be able to determine if new mail has arrived.
However,
\*Linc\*O
can still be used to fetch mail when it arrives.
.\"
.\" This restriction applies only to the standard maildrop,
.\" not to the X.400 maildrop.
.\"
.PP
For this version, the
\*L\-source\*O
option only supports the value
\*Lfile\*O.
Additional values are supported for use only with
other mail systems.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
This example shows a user
\*LSmith\*O
checking his own maildrop:
.oS
% \f(CBmsgchk\f(CW
Smith:
   New file source mail waiting ; last read on Tue, 07 Jun 88 17
:21:49 WET
.oE
.PP
The next example shows a user checking the maildrops of two other
local users on the same system,
\*LRabb\*O
and
\*LJones\*O:
.oS
% \f(CBmsgchk Rabb Jones\f(CW
Rabb:
   No file-source mail waiting ; last read on Tue, 07 Jun 13:22:
25 WET
Jones:
   New file source mail waiting ; last read on Tue, 07 Jun 17:30
:05 WET
.oE
.\"
.\" ***EXAMPLE COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.PP
The next example shows a user checking his maildrop,
and also checking for new X.400 mail, by using the
.B \-source
option:
.oS
% \f(CBmsgchk -source file -source x400\f(CW
Smith:
   No file-source mail waiting ; last read on Tue, 07 Jun 17:23:
04 WET
   New x400 source mail waiting ; last read on Tue, 07 Jun 17:27
:59 WET
.oE
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 24
\*L$HOME/.mh_profile\*O
The user profile.
.TP 24
\*L/usr/lib/mh/mtstailor\*O
The system customization file.
.TP 24
\*L/usr/spool/mail/$USER\*O
The user's maildrop.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Linc\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
