.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: msh.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:34:48 $
.\"
.TH msh 1
.SH NAME
msh \- MH shell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B msh
[
.B \-help
]
.\" ***These options commented out
.ig
[
.B "\-[no]scan"
] [
.B "\-[no]topcur"
]
..
.\" ***End of comments
[
.B "\-prompt"
\*Vstring\*O
] [
\*Vfile\*O
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "msh command"
.PP
The command \*Lmsh\*O is an interactive program that
implements a subset of the normal MH commands
operating on a single file in \*Lpackf\*O format.
That is, \*Lmsh\*O is used to read a file that contains a number of messages,
as opposed to the standard MH style of reading a number of files,
each file being a separate message in a folder.
.PP
The chief advantage of \*Lmsh\*O is that, unlike the normal MH style,
it allows a file to have more than one message in it.
In addition, \*Lmsh\*O can be used on other files,
such as message archives which have been packed using \*Lpackf\*O.
.PP
When invoked, \*Lmsh\*O reads the named file, and enters a command loop.
You can type most of the normal MH commands.
The syntax and semantics of these commands typed to \*Lmsh\*O are
identical to their MH counterparts.
In cases where the nature of \*Lmsh\*O would be inconsistent
with the way MH works
(for example, specifying a
\*V+folder\*O
with some commands), \*Lmsh\*O will duly inform you.
The commands that \*Lmsh\*O currently supports are:
.oS
ali      burst    comp    dist     folder
forw     inc      mark    mhmail   msgchk
next     packf    pick    prev     refile
repl     rmm      scan    send     show
sortm    whatnow  whom
.oE
.PP
In addition, \*Lmsh\*O has a \*Lhelp\*O command
which gives a brief overview of all the \*Lmsh\*O options.
To terminate \*Lmsh\*O, either type <CTRL/D>, or use the \*Lquit\*O command.
If the file is writable and has been modified,
then using \*Lquit\*O will ask you if the file should be updated.
.PP
A redirection facility is supported by \*Lmsh\*O. Commands
may be followed by one of the following
standard symbols:
.TP 10
\*L|\*O
Open an interprocess channel; connect output to another command.
.TP 10
\*L>\*O
Write output to file.
.TP 10
\*L>>\*O
Append output to file.
.PP
If
\f2file\f1
starts with a tilde (\*L~\*O),
then a C-shell-like expansion takes place.
Note that commands are interpreted by \*Lsh\*O(1).
.PP
When parsing commands to the left of any redirection symbol, \*Lmsh\*O will
honor the backslash (\*L\e\*O)
as the quote next-character symbol,
and double quotes (")
as quote-word delimiters.
All other input tokens are separated by white space
(spaces and tabs).
.PP
You may wish to use an alternative profile
for the commands that \*Lmsh\*O executes;
see \*Lmh_profile\*O(4) for details of the \*L$MH\*O
environment variable.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP \-help 10
Prints a list of the valid options for this command.
.\"
.\" ***These options commented out
.ig
.IP "\-scan" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noscan" 10
.PD
***WHAT DOES THIS DO???***
.\"
.IP "\-topcur" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-notopcur" 10
.PD
***WHAT DOES THIS DO???***
..
.\" ***End of comments
.\"
.IP "\-prompt \f2string\f3" 10
Sets the prompt for \*Lmsh\*O. If the string you specify includes white space,
you must enclose it in double quotes (").
If you do not specify this option,
the default prompt is \*L(msh)\*O.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.PP
The following defaults are used by \*Lmsh\*O:
.IP
\*Vfile\*O
defaults to \*L\&./msgbox\*O
.br
.B "\-prompt (msh)"
.\" ***Options commented out
.ig
.br
.B \-noscan
.br
.B \-notopcur
..
.\" ***End of comments
.\"
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The \*Lmsh\*O shell is not the C-shell,
and a lot of the facilities provided by the latter are not
present in the former.
In particular, \*Lmsh\*O does not support back-quoting, history substitutions,
variable substitutions, or alias substitutions.
.PP
\*Lmsh\*O does not understand back-quoting.
The only effective way to use \*Lpick\*O inside \*Lmsh\*O is to always use
the
.B "\-seq select"
option.
If you add the following line to your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O, \*Lpick\*O will
work equally well from both the shell and \*Lmsh\*O:
.oS
pick:\0\-seq\0select\0\-list
.oE
.PP
There is a strict limit of messages per file in \*Lpackf\*O format
which \*Lmsh\*O can handle.
Usually, this limit is 1000 messages.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine your Mail directory
Msg-Protect:+To set protections when creating a new file
fileproc:+Program to file messages
showproc:+Program to show messages
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L$HOME/.mh_profile\*O
The user profile.
.TP 10
\*L/usr/lib/mh/mtstailor\*O
The system customization file.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
csh(1), packf(1), sh(1), mh_profile(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
