.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mt.1,v $ $Revision: 3.7.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/28 19:54:35 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" 
.\" @(#)mt.1  6.2 (Berkeley) 5/9/86
.\" 
.TH mt 1
.SH NAME
\*Lmt\*O \- Magnetic tape manipulating program
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lmt\*O
\*O[\*L\-f\*O
\*Vtape_device\*O]
\*Vcommand\*O [\*Vcount\*O]
.sE 
.PP
The \*Lmt\*O program
gives commands to a magnetic tape drive.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "mt command"
.iX "tape" "manipulation program"
.iX "magnetic tape" "interface"
.iX "interface" "magnetic tape"
.PP 
If you do not specify a tape name with the \*L\-f\*O flag, the
\*LTAPE\*O environment variable
is used; if \*LTAPE\*O does not exist,
\*Lmt\*O uses the \*L/dev/rmt12\*O device.  Note that \*Vtape_device\*O
must refer to a raw (not block) tape device.  By default, \*Lmt\*O
performs the requested operation once.  Operations
can be performed more than once by specifying \*Vcount\*O.
.PP 
The following commands are available:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Leof\*O, \*Lweof\*O"
Writes \*Vcount\*O
End-of-File marks at the current position on the tape.
.LI "\*Lfsf\*O" 
Forward spaces \*Vcount\*O files.
.LI "\*Lfsr\*O" 
Forward spaces \*Vcount\*O records.
.LI "\*Lbsf\*O" 
Backspaces \*Vcount\*O files.
.LI "\*Lbsr\*O" 
Backspaces \*Vcount\*O records.
.LI "\*Lrewind\*O" 
Rewinds the tape (\*Vcount\*O is ignored).
.LI "\*Loffline\*O, \*Lrewoffl\*O" 
Rewinds the tape and places the tape unit offline
(\*Vcount\*O is ignored).
.IP "\*Lonline\*O"
Bring a SCSI tape to the ready state if a tape is in the
tape path. Currently, this command is only supported in the SCSI/CAM
tape driver. Not all SCSI tape drives support this functionality.
.LI "\*Lseod\*O"
Space to end of recorded data. Currently, this command is only
supported in the SCSI/CAM tape driver.
Not all SCSI tape drives support this functionality.
.LI "\*Lstatus\*O" 
Prints status information about the tape unit.
.LE 
.PP 
Only as many characters as are
required to uniquely identify a command need to be specified.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L\-f\*O \*Vtape_device\*O"
Specifies the tape device to be manipulated.
.LE 
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP 
The \*Lmt\*O command
returns a 0 (zero) exit status when the operations were successful,
a 1 if the command was unrecognized, and a 2 if the operation failed.
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 
.LI "\*L/dev/rmt*\*O"
Raw magnetic tape interface.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands: \*Ldd\*O(1).
.PP 
Functions: \*Lioctl\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
