.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mv.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/20 13:47:18 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
.TH mv 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lmv\*O \- Moves files and directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "mv command"
.iX "moving" "files"
.iX "renaming" "files"
.iX "files" "moving"
.iX "files" "renaming"
.sS
.\"Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
\*Lmv\*O
\*O[\*L-i\*O | \*L-f\*O]
\*O[\*L--\*O]
\*Vfile1\*O
\*Vfile2\*O
.PP
\*Lmv\*O
\*O[\*L-i\*O | \*L-f\*O]
\*O[\*L--\*O]
\*Vfile1\*O
\&...
\*Vdirectory\*O
.PP
\*Lmv\*O
\*O[\*L-i\*O | \*L-f\*O]
\*O[\*L--\*O]
\*Vdirectory1\*O
\&...
\*Vdestination_directory\*O
.sE
.\"End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.PP
The \*Lmv\*O command moves files from one directory to another or
renames files and directories.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-f\*O"
Overrides the \*L-i\*O flag and any mode restrictions.
(If both \*L-f\*O and \*L-i\*O are specified \(en
for example, because an alias includes one of them \(en whichever appears
last overrides the other.)
.LI "\*L-i\*O"
Prompts you with the name of the file followed by a question mark
whenever a move is to supersede an existing file.
If the answer begins with \*Ly\*O, or the locale's equivalent of a \*Ly\*O,
the move continues.  Any other reply prevents the move from occurring.
(If both \*L-f\*O and \*L-i\*O are specified \(en
for example, because an alias includes one of them \(en whichever appears
last overrides the other.)
.LI "\*L--\*O"
Interprets all following arguments to \*Lmv\*O as filenames.
This allows filenames to start with a \*L-\*O (dash).
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
If you move a file to a new directory, \*Lmv\*O retains the original filename.
When you move a file, all other links to the file remain intact.
.PP
In the second form, one or more files
are moved to \*Vdirectory\*O with their original filenames.
In the third form, one or more directories are moved to the destination
directory with their original names.
.PP
Note that \*Lmv\*O does not move a file onto itself.
.PP
When you use \*Lmv\*O to rename a file, the
target file can be either a new filename or a new directory pathname.
If moving the file would overwrite an existing file that does not
have write permission set and if standard input is a tty, \*Lmv\*O displays
the permission code of the file to be overwritten
and reads one line from standard input.
If the line begins with \*Ly\*O, or the locale's equivalent of a \*Ly\*O,
the move takes place and the file
is overwritten.  If not, \*Lmv\*O does nothing with the file.
.PP
When you use \*Lmv\*O to move a directory into an existing
directory, the directory and its contents are added under the
existing directory.
.PP
The \*LLC_MESSAGES\*O variable determines the locale's equivalent
.gL "locale"
of \*Ly\*O or \*Ln\*O (for yes/no queries).
.PP
If a \*Lmv\*O operation fails, \*Lmv\*O generally writes a diagnostic
message to standard error, does nothing more with the current source
file, and goes on to process any remaining source files.
.PP
If the copying or removal of a file is prematurely terminated by a
signal or error, \*Lmv\*O might leave a partial copy of the file at
either the source or the target pathname. The \*Lmv\*O program does not
modify the source and target pathnames simultaneously; therefore,
program termination at any point always leaves either the source file or
the target file complete.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To rename a file, enter:
.iS
mv  file1  file2
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This renames \*Lfile1\*O to \*Lfile2\*O.  If a file
named \*Lfile2\*O already exists, its old contents are replaced
with those of \*Lfile1\*O.
.LI
To move a directory, enter:
.iS
mv  dir1  dir2
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This moves \*Ldir1\*O to \*Ldir2\*O.
.\"Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION 
It moves \*Ldir1\*O and all files and directories under \*Ldir1\*O to the
directory named \*Ldir2\*O,
if the second directory exists.  Otherwise, the directory
\*Ldir1\*O gets renamed \*Ldir2\*O.
.LI
To move a file to another directory and give it a new name, enter:
.iS
mv  file1  dir1/file2
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This moves \*Lfile1\*O to \*Ldir1/file2\*O.
The name \*Lfile1\*O is removed from the current directory, and the
same file appears as \*Lfile2\*O in the directory \*Ldir1\*O.
.LI
To move a file to another directory, keeping the same name, enter:
.iS
mv  file1  dir1
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This moves \*Lfile1\*O to \*Ldir1/file1\*O.
.LI
To move several files into another directory, enter:
.iS
mv  file1  dir1/file2  /u/dir2
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This moves \*Lfile1\*O to \*L/u/dir2/file1\*O
and \*Ldir1/file2\*O to \*L/u/dir2/file2\*O.
.LI
To use \*Lmv\*O with pattern-matching characters, enter:
.iS
mv  dir1/*  .
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This moves all files in the directory \*Ldir1\*O
into the current directory (\&.), giving them the same names they had
in \*Ldir1\*O.  This also empties \*Ldir1\*O.
Note that you must type a space between the \*L*\*O (asterisk)
and the \*L\&.\*O (dot).
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
If the source is on a different file system than
the destination, \*Lmv\*O must copy the source to the destination's
file system and then delete the source.
.\"Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
The effect is equivalent to the following:
.\"End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.iS
rm -f \*Vdestination\*L && cp -pr \*Vsource destination\*L && rm -rf \*Vsource\*O\c
.iE
.SH CAUTIONS
.PP
.\"Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION 
The \*Lmv\*O command might overwrite existing files. Specify the
\*L-i\*O flag last on the command line to cause the \*Lmv\*O command to
prompt you before it moves a file.
.\"End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcp\*O(1), \*Lln\*O(1), \*Lrm\*O(1)
.PP
Functions: \*Lrename\*O(2)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
