.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mvdir.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/26 19:59:52 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH mvdir 1
.SH NAME
\*Lmvdir\*O \- Moves (renames) a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lmvdir\*O
\*Vdirectory1\*O
\*Vdirectory2\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "mvdir command"
.iX "directories" "moving"
.iX "directories" "renaming"
.iX "moving" "directories"
.iX "renaming" "directories"
.PP 
The \*Lmvdir\*O command renames directories within a file system.
To use \*Lmvdir\*O, you must
have write permission to \*Vdirectory1\*O and \*Vdirectory2\*O
and to the parent directories of \*Vdirectory1\*O and \*Vdirectory2\*O.
The \*Vdirectory1\*O argument must name an existing directory.
If \*Vdirectory2\*O does not exist, \*Vdirectory1\*O is moved
to \*Vdirectory2\*O.
If \*Vdirectory2\*O exists, \*Vdirectory1\*O becomes a
subdirectory of \*Vdirectory2\*O.  \*Vdirectory2\*O cannot be a
subdirectory of \*Vdirectory1\*O.
.PP 
Directories cannot be moved across file systems.
.PP 
You can also rename a directory with the \*Lmv\*O command.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
To rename or move a directory to another location, enter:
.iS
mvdir  appendixes  manual
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
If \*Lmanual\*O does not exist, then this renames the
directory \*Lappendixes\*O to \*Lmanual\*O.
.PP
If a directory named \*Lmanual\*O already exists, this
moves \*Lappendixes\*O and its contents
to \*Lmanual/appendixes\*O.  In other words, \*Lappendixes\*O
becomes a subdirectory of \*Lmanual\*O.
.SH NOTES
.PP 
This command was made obsolete by the \*Lmv\*O command.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lmkdir\*O(1), \*Lmv\*O(1).
.PP 
Functions:  \*Lrename\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
