.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: netstat.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.8.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/15 14:51:38 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
.\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail 
.\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH netstat 1
.SH NAME
\*Lnetstat\*O \- Displays network statistics.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lnetstat\*O
\*O[\*L-Aan\*O]
\*O[\*L-f\*O
\*Vaddress_family\*O]
\*O[\*L-p\*O
\*Vprotocol\*O]
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Commenting out system and core arguments per QAR 10743.
.\" \*O[\*Vsystem\*O]
.\" \*O[\*Vcore\*O]
.\" End Digital-specific information
\*O[\*Vinterval\*O]
.PP
\*Lnetstat\*O
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
\*O[\*L-adHmMnrstu\*O]
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
\*O[\*L-f\*O
\*Vaddress_family\*O]
\*O[\*L-p\*O
\*Vprotocol\*O]
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Commenting out system and core arguments per QAR 10743.
.\" \*O[\*Vsystem\*O]
.\" \*O[\*Vcore\*O]
.\" End Digital-specific information
\*O[\*Vinterval\*O]
.PP
\*Lnetstat\*O
\*O[\*L-ntd\*O]
\*O[\*L-I\*O
\*Vinterface\*O]
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Commenting out system and core arguments per QAR 10743.
.\" \*O[\*Vsystem\*O]
.\" \*O[\*Vcore\*O]
.\" End Digital-specific information
\*O[\*Vinterval\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lnetstat\*O command displays network-related data in various formats.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Displays the state of sockets related to the Internet
protocol.  Includes sockets for processes such as servers
that are currently listening at a socket but are otherwise inactive.
.LI "\*L-A\*O"
Displays the address of any protocol control blocks associated with
sockets.  Typically, this flag is used for debugging.
.LI "\*L-d\*O"
Displays the number of dropped packets; for use with the
\*L-I \*Vinterface\*O or \*L-i\*O flags.  You can
also specify an \*Vinterval\*O argument (in seconds).
.LI "\*L-f\*O \*Vaddress_family\*O"
Limits reports to the specified address family.
The address families that can be specified might include
the following:
.VL 8m
.LI "\*Linet\*O"
Specifies reports of the AF\(ulINET\*O family, if present in the kernel.
.LI "\*Lunix\*O"
Specifies reports of the AF\(ulUNIX\*O family, if present in the kernel.
.LI "\*Lns\*O"
Specifies reports of the AF\(ulNS\*O, if present in the kernel.
.LI "\*Lall\*O"
Lists information about all address families in
the system.
.LI "\*Lany\*O"
Lists information about any address families in the system.
.LE
.LI "\*L-H\*O"
Displays the current ARP table (behaves like \*Larp -a\*O).
.LI "\*L-i\*O"
Displays the state of configured interfaces.
(Interfaces that are statically configured into the system, but not
located at system start, are not shown.)
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.IP
When used with the \*L-a\*O flag, it displays IP and link-level
addresses associated with the interfaces.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L-I \*Vinterface\*O"
Displays information about the specified interface.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" The following line is not required. The command works fine.
.\"An \*Vinterval\*O argument must be entered when you use the
.\"\*L-I\*O flag.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding an Environment Note.
.LI "\*L-I \*Vinterface\*O \*L-s\*O"
Displays the DNA Data Link Layer counters for the network
interface and the adapter's status and characteristics.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L-m\*O"
Displays information about memory allocated to data structures
associated with network operations.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L-M\*O"
Displays Internet protocol multicast routing information. When
used with the \*L-s\*O flag, it displays IP multicast statistics.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Displays network address in numerical format.
When this flag is not specified,
the address is displayed as hostname and port number.
This flag can be used with any of the display formats.
.LI "\*L-p\*Vprotocol\*O"
Displays statistics for \*Vprotocol\*O, which you
can specify as a well known name or an alias.
Supported protocol names and their aliases are listed in
\*L/etc/protocols\*O.  A null listing (0) means that
there is no data to report.  If routines to report statistics
for a specified protocol
are not implemented on this system, \*Lnetstat\*O reports that
the protocol is \*Cunknown\*O.
.LI "\*L-r\*O"
Displays the host's routing tables.
When used with the \*L-s\*O flag, shows the host's
routing statistics instead of routing tables.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Displays statistics for each protocol.
.LI "\*L-t\*O"
Displays timer information; for
use with the \*L-I\*O[\*Vinterface\*O] or \*L-i\*O flags.
.LI "\*L-u\*O"
Displays information about domain sockets (UNIX domain).
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "netstat command"
.iX "displaying" "network status"
.iX "displaying" "network statistics"
.iX "displaying" "active connections"
.iX "active connections" "displaying"
.iX "connections" "active"
.iX "networks" "status"
.iX "status" "network"
.PP
The \*Vinterval\*O argument
specifies in seconds the interval for updating and
displaying information.  The first line of the display shows cumulative
statistics; subsequent lines show statistics
recorded during \*Vinterval\*O.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Commenting out system and core information per QAR 10743.
.\" .PP
.\" The \*Vsystem\*O and \*Vcore\*O arguments
.\" cause \*Lnetstat\*O to derive statistics from the file \*Vcore\*O
.\" based on kernel file \*Vsystem\*O for the system currently running.
.\" The default values for \*Vsystem\*O and \*Vcore\*O
.\" are \*L/vmunix\*O and \*L/dev/kmem\*O, respectively. To examine kernel
.\" crash dump files, use the \*Lkdbx\*O(1) command.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SS Default Display
When used without flags, the \*Lnetstat\*O command displays a list of
active sockets for each protocol.
The default display shows the following items:
.ML
.LI
Local and remote addresses
.LI
Send and receive queue sizes (in bytes)
.LI
Protocol
.LI
State
.LE
.PP
Address formats are of the form \*Vhost.port\*O or
\*Vnetwork.port\*O if a socket's address specifies a network
but no specific host address.  The host and network address are displayed
symbolically unless \*L-n\*O is specified.
.SS Interface Display
The network interface display format provides a table of cumulative
statistics for the following:
.ML
.LI
Interface name
.LI
Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU)
.LI
Network Address
.LI
Packets received (\*LIpkts\*O)
.LI
Packets received in error (\*LIerrs\*O)
.LI
Packets transferred (\*LOpkts\*O)
.LI
Outgoing packets in error (\*LOerrs\*O)
.LI
Collisions
.IP
Note that the collisions item
has different meanings for different network interfaces.
.LI
Drops (optional with \*L-d\*O)
.LI
Timers (optional with \*L-t\*O)
.LE
.SS Routing Table Display
A route consists of a destination host or network
and a gateway to use when forwarding packets.
Direct routes are created automatically for each interface attached
to the local host when you issue the \*Lifconfig\*O command.
Routes can be modified automatically in response to the prevailing
condition of the network.
.PP
The routing-table display format indicates available routes and the
status of each in the following fields:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LFlags\*O"
Displays the state of the route as one or more of the following:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LU\*O"
Up, or available.
.LI "\*LG\*O"
This route is to a gateway.
.LI "\*LH\*O"
This route is to a host
.LI "\*LD\*O"
This route was dynamically created by a redirect.
.LI "\*LM\*O"
This route was modified by a redirect.
.LE
.LI "\*Lrefcnt\*O"
Gives the current number of active uses for
the route.
Connection-oriented protocols hold on to a single route
for the duration of a connection; connectionless protocols
obtain routes in the process of sending to a destination.
.LI "\*Luse\*O"
Provides a count of the number of packets sent using the route.
.LI "\*Linterface\*O"
Indicates the network interface used for the route.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To show the state of the configured interfaces, enter:
.iS
$ netstat -i
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To show the routing tables, enter:
.iS
$ netstat -r
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The resulting display looks like the following:
.\"Begin Digital correction.
.\" DEC engineering didn't like 555.555.5.x.
.\" se0 is wrong changed to ln0.
.oS
Routing Tables
Destination	Gateway		Flags	Refs	Use	Interface
Netmasks:
Inet		255.255.255.0

Route Tree for Protocol Family 2:
default	        16.55.5.5	UG	13	38618	ln0
localhost	16.55.5.4	UH	2	29	lo0
ethernet	16.55.5.3	U	98	66760	ln0
\*O\c
.oE
.\"End Digital correction.
.IP
(Output may be formatted differently on your system.)
.LI
To produce the default display for network connections, enter:
.iS
netstat
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The resulting display might include the following headings:
.oS
Active Internet connections
Proto Recv-Q Send-Q Local Address   Foreign Address   (state)
\*O\c
.oE
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lvmstat\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
