.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: newaliases.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/10/27 07:18:29 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH newaliases 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lnewaliases\*O \- Builds a new copy of the alias database
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lnewaliases\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "newaliases command"
.iX "mail" "rebuilding aliases database"
.iX "aliases" "rebuilding database"
.iX "database" "aliases"
.\"Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\"Added info that the location of the alias source is configurable.
The \*Lnewaliases\*O command
builds a new copy of the alias file from source. The location of the
alias source is controlled by the setting of the \*LA\*O processing flag
either in the \*Lsendmail.cf\*O file or by the \*Lsendmail\*O \*L-o\*O flag.
By default, the source file is in \*L/var/adm/sendmail/aliases\*O. (The 
setting of the \*LA\*O processing flag also controls the location of the 
\*L.dir\*O and \*L.pag\*O files.)
.PP
You must issue this command each time you change the alias source file
for the change to take effect.
.\"End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
Running this command is equivalent to running the \*Lsendmail\*O
command with the \*L-bi\*O flag.
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 14m
.LI "\*L/var/adm/sendmail/aliases\*O"
Contains source for the aliases for \*Lsendmail\*O.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/sendmail/aliases\&.dir\*O" 
Contains binary files for the aliases database
created by the \*Lnewaliases\*O command.
.LI "\*L/var/adm/sendmail/aliases\&.pag\*O" 
Contains binary files for the aliases database
created by the \*Lnewaliases\*O command.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands: \*Lsendmail\*O(8).
.PP 
Files: \*Laliases\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
