.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: newgrp.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/30 21:39:30 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"	build rmifdef
.\"
.TH newgrp 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lnewgrp\*O \- Changes primary group identification of a shell process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lnewgrp\*O
\*O[\*L\-l\*O]
\*O[\*Vgroup\*O]
.PP
\*Lnewgrp\*O
\*O[\*L\-\*O]
\*O[\*Vgroup\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lnewgrp\*O command changes the primary group identification of
the current shell process to \*Vgroup\*O.  You remain logged in and
the current directory is unchanged, but calculations of access
permissions to files are performed with respect to the primary group ID.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "newgrp command"
.iX "processes" "changing primary group"
.iX "primary group identification, changing"
.iX "changing" "primary group identification"
If you do not specify \*Vgroup\*O,
\*Lnewgrp\*O changes the group identification back to that specified for
the current user in the \*L/etc/passwd\*O file.
Only exported environment variables retain their values after you
invoke \*Lnewgrp\*O.  Otherwise, variables with a default value are
reset to that default.
.PP
If a password is required for the
specified group, and you are not listed as a member of that group in
the group database, you are prompted to enter the correct password for
that group.  If you are listed as a member of that group, no password
is requested.  If no password is required for the specified group,
only users listed as members of that group can change to that group.
.PP
Only a user with superuser authority can change the primary group of
the
.\"Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
shell process to one to which that user does not belong.
.\"End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.PP
.\"Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\"Modified this paragraph to explain more clearly what shells
.\"are gone after the newgrp command finishes.
When you invoke the \*Lnewgrp\*O command from a shell, the shell executes the
command without forking a
new process. Therefore, the shell you were using when you issued
the \*Lnewgrp\*O command is unavailable after the \*Lnewgrp\*O command
finishes.
.\"End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-l\*O"
Changes the login environment to what would be expected if
the user logged in again.
.LI "\*L\-\*O"
Changes the login environment to that of the new group.  (Obsolescent)
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
.AL
.LI
The \*Lnewgrp\*O command is also a built-in command for \*Lcsh\*O.
.LI
There is no convenient way to enter a password into the group
database.  Use of group passwords is not encouraged because by their
very nature they encourage poor security practices.
.iX "newgrp command"
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lgroups\*O(1), \*Lid\*O(1), \*Llogin\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
