.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: newinv.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:35:10 $
.\"
.TH newinv 1
.SH NAME
\*Lnewinv\*O \- update distribution kit master inventory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/bin/newinv\*O \*Vmi-file\*O \*Vinput-path\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "setld" "newinv command"
.iX "newinv command"
.iX "kits" "updating master inventory"
The
\*Lnewinv\*O
command interactively maintains the master inventory files used for
producing distribution kits in
\*Lsetld\*O
format.  The program updates the master inventory for a product when
changes are made to the hierarchy of files that are to be packaged in
the subsets which constitute the product.
.PP
The product hierarchy is scanned to produce a list of component path
names relative to
\*Vinput-path\*O.
The list of path names is processed against the
\*Vmi-file\*O
to produce a list of files that have been removed from the product
hierarchy and a list of files that have been added.
.PP
The user is then given an opportunity to intervene and direct the
inventory maintenance by editing these lists.  The user is placed in the
editor with each list available for editing.  The editor used is the one
specified by the
\*LEDITOR\*O
environment variable.  If
\*LEDITOR\*O
is not set,
\*Lvi\*O
is used.  When editing the list of files that have been removed from
the product, the user is expected to verify that the removals were
intentional and confirm the intent by removing the associated records
from the file.  When editing the list of added files, the user is
expected to provide flags and subset information for each new file,
transforming the elements of the list into master inventory records.
.PP
To produce a new copy of the master inventory file, both of these lists
are merged with the records for the files which existed in the previous
version and are still included.
.SS Arguments
.TP 15
\*Vmi-file\*O
The pathname of the master inventory file to be processed.  If no
master inventory file exists, you must create an empty one before using
the
\*Lnewinv\*O
command.
.TP
\*Vinput-path\*O
The name of the product hierarchy to be scanned for files belonging in
the inventory.  All files and directories found below the
\*Vinput-path\*O
are processed as belonging in the inventory.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The default text editor, if not specified in
\*L$EDITOR\*O,
is
\*L/usr/ucb/vi\*O.
.PP
Files in the product hierarchy cannot be excluded from the master
inventory.  Files can be blocked from being kitted in the final
distribution kit by setting the subset field of the master inventory
record to a minus sign (\-).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To update the hypothetical master inventory file
\*VOAT100.mi\*O
from the hierarchy beginning at
\*V/var/kits/input\*O,
type:
.oS
newinv OAT100.mi /var/kits/input
.oE
.SH ERRORS
.PP
\*Lnewinv: where is\*O \*Vmi-file\*O\*L?\*O
.br
.RS 5
The
\*Vmi-file\*O
specified on the command line cannot be found.
.RE
.PP
\*Vinput-path\*O\*L: bad directory.\*O
.br
.RS 5
The
\*Vinput-path\*O
directory specified on the command line does not exist.
.RE
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 15
\*Lmi-file.bkp\*O
Backup copy of master inventory
.TP
\*Lmi-file.dead\*O
The list of files missing from the product
.TP
\*Lmi-file.extra\*O
The list of files new to the product
.TP
\*Lmi-file.join\*O
Intermediate join file
.TP
\*Lmi-file.tmp\*O
List of all files in the product
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  kits(1), vi(1), setld(8)
.PP
File formats:  stl_mi(4)
.PP
Conventions:  environ(5)
.PP
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
