.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: news.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/14 13:22:21 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH news 1
.SH NAME
\*Lnews\*O \- Writes system news items to standard output
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lnews\*O
\*O[\*L-a\*O
|
\*L-n\*O
|
\*L-s\*O]
|
\*O[\*Vitem\*O
\&.\&.\&.]
.sE 
.PP
The \*Lnews\*O command keeps you informed of news concerning the system.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Displays all news items, regardless of the currency time.
The currency time does not change.
.LI "\*L-n\*O" 
Reports the names of current news items without displaying their
contents.  The currency time does not change.
.LI "\*L-s\*O" 
Reports the number of current news items without displaying their
names or contents.  The currency time does not change.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "news command"
.iX "displaying" "news items"
.PP 
Each news item is contained in a separate file in the \*L/usr/news\*O
directory.  Anyone having read/write permission
to this directory can create a \*Lnews\*O file.
.PP 
If you run the \*Lnews\*O command without any flags, it displays
the current files in \*L/usr/news\*O, beginning with the most recent.
You can also specify the items you want displayed.
.PP 
Each file is preceded by an appropriate header.
To avoid reporting old news, \*Lnews\*O stores a currency time.
\*Lnews\*O considers your currency time to be the modification time
of the file named \*L$HOME/.news\(ultime\*O.
Each time you read the news, the modification time of this file changes
to that of the reading.
Only news item files posted after this time are considered current.
.PP 
Pressing the Interrupt key sequence
during the display of a news item stops the
display of that item and starts the next.
Pressing the Interrupt key sequence again ends \*Lnews\*O.
.PP 
Most users run \*Lnews\*O each time they log in by including the following
line in their \*L$HOME/.profile\*O file or in the system's
\*L/etc/profile\*O:
.iS
news  -n
\*O\c
.iE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
.AL 3m 
.LI
To display the items that were posted since you last read the
news, enter:
.iS
news
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To display all the news items, enter:
.iS
news  -a | pg
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This displays all the news items a page at a time,
regardless of whether you have read them yet.
.LI
To list the names of the news items that you have not read yet, enter:
.iS
news  -n
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
Each name is a file in the \*L/usr/news\*O directory.
.LI
To display specific news items, enter:
.iS
news  newusers  services
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This displays news about \*Lnewusers\*O and \*Lservices\*O,
which are names listed by \*Lnews -n\*O.
.LI
To display the number of news items that you have not read yet, enter:
.iS
news  -s
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To post news for everyone to read, enter:
.iS
cp  schedule  /usr/news
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This copies the file \*Lschedule\*O into the system news
directory (\*L/usr/news\*O) to create the file \*L/usr/news/schedule\*O.
To do this, you must have write permission for \*L/usr/news\*O.
.LE 
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/etc/profile\*O"
System profile.
.LI "\*L/usr/news/*\*O" 
News files.
.LI "\*L$HOME/.news_time\*O" 
Indicates the last time news was read.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lpg\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
