.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: nice.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/20 13:29:55 $
.\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
...\"build rmifdef
.TH nice 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lnice\*O \- Runs a command at a different priority
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.sS
.SS Current syntax
.IP
\*Lnice\*O
\*O[\*L-n\ \*Vpriority\*O]
\*Vcommand\*O
\*O[\*Vargument\*O\ \&.\&.\&.]
.SS Obsolescent syntax
.IP
\*Lnice\*O
\*O[\*L\(hy\*Vpriority\*O]
\*Vcommand\*O
\*O[\*Vargument\*O\ \&.\&.\&.]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.iX "nice command"
.iX "commands" "setting priority of"
.iX "priority" "command"
.iX "commands" "priority"
.iX "running" "commands at different priorities"
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-n \*Vpriority\*O"
Specifies how the system scheduling priority of the executed utility
is adjusted.  The \*Vpriority\*O argument is a positive or negative
decimal integer.  Positive \*Vpriority\*O values cause a lower or
unchanged system scheduling priority.  Negative \*Vpriority\*O values
might require appropriate privileges and cause a higher or unchanged
system scheduling priority.
.LI "\*L-\*Vpriority\*O"
Specifies how the system scheduling priority of the executed utility
is adjusted.  (Obsolescent)
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lnice\*O command lets you run the specified command at a lower priority.
The value of \*Vpriority\*O can range from 1 to 19, with 19 being the
lowest priority.  The default value of \*Vpriority\*O is 10.
.PP
If you have superuser authority, you can run commands at a higher
priority by specifying \*Vpriority\*O as a negative number;
for example, \*L\-10\*O.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To run a low priority command in the background, enter:
.iS
nice  cc  \-c  *.c  &
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This runs the command \*Lcc \-c *.c\*O at low priority
in the background.
Your terminal is free so that you can run other commands while
\*Lcc\*O is running.
See the \*Lsh\*O command for details about starting background
processes with an & (ampersand).
.LI
To specify a very low priority, enter:
.iS
nice  \-15  cc  \-c  *.c  &
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This runs \*Lcc\*O in the background at a priority that is even
lower than the default priority set by \*Lnice\*O.
.LI
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Changed BDEC/EDEC tags to comments.  Have no idea what work was done.
To specify a very high priority (\*Lksh\*O and \*Lsh\*O only), enter:
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.iS
nice  --10  wall  <<end
System shutdown in 2 minutes!
end
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This runs \*Lwall\*O at a higher priority than all user processes.
Doing this slows down everything else running on the system.
If you do not have superuser authority when you run this command, then
the \*Lwall\*O command runs at the normal priority.
.IP
The \*L<<end\*O and \*Lend\*O arguments define a \*VHere
Document\*O, which uses the text entered before the \*Lend\*O line
as standard input for the command.
For more details, see the \*LInline Input (Here) Documents\*O section
on the \*Lsh\*O reference page.
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Lcsh\*O command contains a built-in
subcommand named \*Lnice\*O.  The command and subcommand do not
necessarily work the same way.  For information on the subcommand,
see the \*Lcsh\*O command.
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
The \*Lnice\*O command returns the following exit values:
.VL 4m
.LI "1-125"
An error occured in the \*Lnice\*O utility.
.LI "126"
The specified command was found but could not be invoked.
.LI "127"
The specified command could not be found.
.LE
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcsh\*O(1), \*Lnohup\*O(1).
.PP
Functions: \*Lnice\*O(3) \*Lsetpriority\*O(2).
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Commented out these lines because they are not needed.
.\" #ifdef LICENSEE
.\" .PP 
.\" The \*Las\*O, \*Lgcc\*O (\*Lcc\*O), \*Lgdb\*O, and \*Lld\*O
.\" commands may be available on your system, but are not provided with OSF/1.
.\" #endif /* LICENSEE */
.\" End Digital-specific information
.EQ
delim off
.EN
