.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: nl.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/07 20:13:13 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH nl 1
.SH NAME
\*Lnl\*O \- Numbers lines in a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lnl\*O [\*L\-b\*O \*Vtype\*O] [\*L\-d\*O \*Vdelimiter1[delimiter2]\*O]
[\*L\-f\*O \*Vtype\*O] [\*L\-h\*O \*Vtype\*O]
.br
     [\*L\-i\*O \*Vnumber\*O] [\*L\-l\*O \*Vnumber\*O]
[\*L\-n\*O \*Vformat\*O] [\*L\-p\*O] [\*L\-s\*O [\*Vseparator\*O]]
.br
     [\*L\-v\*O\*Vnumber\*O] [\*L\-w\*O\*Vnumber\*O] [\*Vfile\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lnl\*O command reads \*Vfile\*O (standard input by
default), numbers the lines in the input, and writes the numbered lines
to standard output.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
Use the following flags to change the default settings.
Except for the \*L-s\*O flag, enter a flag without an argument to
use its default value.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-b \*Vtype\*O"
Specifies which body section lines to number.
The recognized types are as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*La\*O"
Numbers all lines.
.LI  "\*Lt\*O"
Number only lines with text consisting of at least one character in the current locale's graph character classification.
.LI "\*Ln\*O"
Does not number any lines.
.LI "\*Lp \*Vpattern\*O"
Numbers only those lines containing the specified \*Vpattern\*O.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
The full range of regular expressions is supported for \*Vpattern\*O.
.\" End Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.LE
.LI "\*L-d \*Vdelimiter1delimiter2\*O"
Uses \*Vdelimiter1\*O and
\*Vdelimiter2\*O as the delimiters for the start of a logical page
section.
The default characters are \e: (backslash followed by a
colon).
You can specify either one or two characters after the \*L-d\*O flag.
If you want to use a backslash as a delimiter, enter two backslashes
(\e\e).
.LI "\*L-f \*Vtype\*O"
Specifies which logical page footer lines to number.
The types recognized are the same as in
\*L-b \*Vtype\*O.
.LI "\*L-h \*Vtype\*O"
Specifies which logical page header lines to number.
The types recognized are the same as in
\*L-b \*Vtype\*O.
.LI "\*L-i \*Vnumber\*O"
Increments logical page line numbers by \*Vnumber\*O.
.LI "\*L-l \*Vnumber\*O"
Counts \*Vnumber\*O blank lines as 1. You must use "\*L-ba\*O",
"\*L-fa\*O", and/or "\*L-ha\*O" with this option for it to be
effective.
For example, \*L-l3\*O will only number the third adjacent blank.
.LI "\*L-n \*Vformat\*O"
Specifies \*Vformat\*O as the line numbering format.
Recognized formats are as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lln\*O"
Left justified, leading zeroes are suppressed.
.LI "\*Lrn\*O"
Right justified, leading zeroes are suppressed (default).
.LI "\*Lrz\*O"
Right justified, leading zeroes are kept.
.LE
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Ignores logical page delimiters (does not restart numbering).
.LI "\*L-s [\*Vseparator\*O]"
Separates text from line numbers with the \*Vseparator\*O
string.
The default value of \*Vseparator\*O is a tab character.
If you enter \*L-s\*O without an argument, there is no separation
between the line number and its text.
.LI "\*L-v \*Vnumber\*O"
Sets the initial logical page line number to \*Vnumber\*O.
.LI "\*L-w \*Vnumber\*O"
Specifies \*Vnumber\*O as the number of digits in the line number.
The default value of \*Vnumber\*O is 6.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "nl command"
.iX "line numbering filter"
.iX "filters" "line numbering"
.iX "files" "numbering lines in"
.PP
In the output, \*Lnl\*O numbers the lines on the left, according to
the flags you specify on the command line.
.PP
The input text must be written in logical pages.
Each logical page has a header, a body, and a footer section (sections
can be empty).
Unless you use the \*L-p\*O flag, \*Lnl\*O resets the line
numbers at the start of each logical page.
You can set line numbering flags independently for the header, body, and
footer sections (for example, no numbering of header and footer lines
while numbering text lines only in the body).
.PP
Signal the start of logical page sections with lines in
\*Vfile\*O that contain nothing but the following delimiter
characters
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
(assuming the default delimiters \- see the description of the \*L-d\*O
flag):
.\" End Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.rS
.VL 21
.LI "\*LLine Contents\*O"
\*LStart of\*O
.LI "\*L\e:\e:\e:\*O"
Header
.LI "\*L\e:\e:\*O"
Body
.LI "\*L\e:\*O"
Footer
.LE
.rE
.PP
You can name only one file on the command line.  You can list
the flags and the filename in any order.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding RESTRICTIONS from BL11 Release Notes.
.\" .SH RESTRICTIONS
.\".PP
.\"The \*Lnl\*O utility does not accept regular expressions that contain
.\"collating symbols.  For example, you should be able to use the
.\"\*L[[.ch.]] collating symbol in the Spanish locale with \*Lnl\*O,
.\"but the utility considers it an invalid regular expression and returns an
.\"error.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To number only the nonblank lines, enter:
.iS
nl chap1
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This displays a numbered listing of \*Lchap1\*O, numbering only
the nonblank lines in the body sections.  If \*Lchap1\*O contains no
\*L\e:\e:\e :\*O, \*L\e:\e :\*O, or
\*L\e:\*O delimiters, then the entire file is considered the body.
.LI
To number all lines, enter:
.iS
nl  -ba  chap1
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This numbers all the lines in the body sections, including blank lines.
This form of the \*Lnl\*O command is adequate for most uses.
.LI
To specify a different line number format, enter:
.iS
nl  -i10  -nrz  -s::  -v10  -w4  chap1
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This numbers the lines of \*Lchap1\*O, starting with 10
(\*L-v10\*O) and counting by 10s (\*L-i10\*O).
It displays four digits for each number (\*L-w4\*O), including
leading zeroes (\*L-nrz\*O).
The line numbers are separated from the text by two colons
(\*L-s::\*O).
.IP
For example, if \*Lchap1\*O contains the following text:
.iS
A not-so-important note to remember:

You can't kill time without injuring eternity.
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
then the numbered listing is as follows:
.oS
0010::A not-so-important note to remember:

0020::You can't kill time without injuring eternity.
\*O\c
.oE
.IP
Note that the blank line was not numbered.
To do this, use the \*L-ba\*O flag as shown in Example 2.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcat\*O(1), \*Lpr\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
