.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: nm.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/22 19:57:24 $
.\"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.  All Rights |
.\" | Reserved.                                         |
.\" -----------------------------------------------------
.\"  nm.1 3.1
.TH nm 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lnm\*O \- name list dump of object files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Lnm\*O [\*L\-abdefghnopruvxABTV\*O] [ \*Vfile1 ... fileN\*O ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "nm command"
The \*Lnm\*O command
prints formatted listings of the symbol and external sections
of an object file symbol table.
A \*Vfile\*O can be an object or an archive.  If you do not specify a file,
this command assumes
\*Va.out\*O.
.\" .PP
.\" The
.\" .B \-A
.\" and
.\" .B \-B
.\" options specify
.\" .SM AT&T
.\" System V style output or Berkeley (4.3
.\" \s-1BSD\s0)
.\" style output, respectively.
.\" The version of
.\" .SM UNIX
.\" running at your site determines the default.
.\" \*LNOTE:\*O Some options
.\" can change the version-specific defaults.
.\" These options change the meaning
.\" of overloaded flags after -A or -B is specified.
.\" .PP
.\" A normal Berkeley system produces the
.\" \*Vaddress \*O
.\" or
.\" \*Vvalue\*O
.\" field followed by a
.\" \*Vletter\*O
.\" showing what section the symbol or external is in and the
.\" \*Vname\*O
.\" of the symbol or external.
.PP
These section letters describe the information that \*Lnm\*O generates:
.\" .rS
.TP
.B N
nil storage class, compiler internal usage
.TP
.B T
external text
.TP
.B t
local text
.TP
.B D
external initialized data
.TP
.B d
local initialized data
.TP
.B B
external zeroed data
.TP
.B b
local zeroed data
.TP
.B A
external absolute
.TP
.B a
local absolute
.TP
.B U
external undefined
.TP
.B G
external small initialized data
.TP
.B g
local small initialized data
.TP
.B S
external small zeroed data
.TP
.B s
local small zeroed data
.TP
.B R
external read only
.TP
.B r
local read only
.TP
.B C
common
.TP
.B E
small common
.TP
.B V
external small undefined
.\" .rE
.PP
The standard System V format and the
.B \-a
specified Berkeley format provide an expanded listing with these
columns:
.\" .rS
.TP
.B Name
the symbol or external name
.TP
.B Value
the value field for the symbol or external, usually an address or
interesting debugging information
.TP
.B Class
the symbol type
.TP
.B Type
the symbol's language declaration
.TP
.B Size
unused
.TP
.B Index
the symbol's index field
.TP
.B Section
the symbol's storage class
.\" .rE
.PP
\*LNOTE\*O: Every effort was made to map the field's functionality
into System V
nomenclature.
.PP
.ne 4
The
.B nm
command accepts these options:
.\" .rS
.TP
.B -a
prints debugging information, effectively turning Berkeley into System V format
.TP
.B -b
prints the value field in octal
.TP
.B -d
prints the value field in decimal (the System V default)
.TP
.B -e
prints external and statics only
.TP
.B -f
produces full output. (The \*Lnm\*O command still accepts this old option,
but ignores it.)
.TP
.B -g
prints only global symbols
.TP
.B -h
does not print headers
.TP
.B -n
for System V, sorts external symbols by name (default for Berkeley), and
for Berkeley, sorts all symbols by value
.TP
.B -o
for System V, prints the value field in octal, and
for Berkeley prepends the filename to each symbol. (This is good for
using the
.B grep
command to check through \*Lnm\*O listings of libraries.
.TP
.B -p
prints symbols as they are found in the file (the System V default)
.TP
.B -r
reverses the sense of a value or name sort
.TP
.B -u
prints only undefined symbols
.TP
.B -v
sorts external symbols by value
.TP
.B -x
prints value field in hexadecimal (Berkeley default)
.TP
.B -A
prints AT&T System V-style output. This is the default output for
DEC OSF/1 systems. 
.TP
.B -B
prints Berkeley (4.3 BSD)-style output. This format produces an
.B address 
or
.B value
field followed by a
.B letter
showing what section the symbol or external is located in. The third
and final field is the name of the symbol or external.
.TP
.B -T
truncates long names, inserting a `*' as the last printed character
.TP
.B -V
prints version information on stderr
.PP
Please note that the 
.B -A
or
.B -B
options must precede all other options on the command line.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*EProgrammer's Guide\*O
.br
\*EAssembly Language Programmer's Guide\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
