.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: nohup.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 19:26:52 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH nohup 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lnohup\*O \- Runs a utility ignoring hangups and quits (see Note)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lnohup\*O
\*Vutility\*O
\*O[\*Vargument\*O
\&.\&.\&.]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "nohup command"
.iX "running" "commands without hangups"
.iX "hangups"
.iX "QUIT signals"
.iX "commands" "running without hangups"
.iX "signals" "QUIT"
.ix "nohup utility"
The \*Lnohup\*O command runs \*Vutility\*O, ignoring all
hangups and \*LQUIT\*O signals.  You can
use this command to run programs in the background after logging off
the system.
To run a \*Lnohup\*O command in the background, add
an & (ampersand) to the end of the command.
.PP
If \*Lnohup\*O output is
redirected to a terminal or is not redirected at all,
the output is appended to the file \*Lnohup.out\*O.
If the file is created, the permission bits are set to Owner Read and
Owner Write (600). If \*Lnohup.out\*O is not writable in the current directory, the output is redirected to \*L$HOME/nohup.out\*O.
If neither file can be created nor opened for appending, \*Lutility\*O
is not invoked.
.PP
The \*Lnohup\*O command accepts just one utility as an argument.
To apply \*Lnohup\*O to a pipeline or list of commands, enter the pipeline
or list in a shell script file.  Then run \*Lsh\*O as
\*Vutility\*O using the following format:
.iS
nohup sh -c \*Vfile\*O
.iE
.PP
You can also assign the
shell file execute permission and run it as the utility in the form:
.iS
nohup \*Vfile\*O
.iE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To leave a command running after logging out (\*Lsh\*O only), enter:
.iS
nohup  find  /  -print  &
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
Shortly after you enter this, the following is displayed:
.oS
670
$ Sending output to nohup.out
\*O\c
.oE
.IP
The process ID number changes to the background process
started by the & (ampersand), in this case, 670.
The $ (dollar sign) is the shell prompt.
The message following informs you that the output from the \*Lfind\*O
command is in the file \*Lnohup.out\*O.
.oS
Sending output\&.\&.\&.\*O
.oE
.IP
You can log out after you see these messages, even if the
\*Lfind\*O command has not finished yet.
.IP
Note that if you are using \*Lcsh\*O, the built-in command \*Lnohup\*O
is executed instead of the system command.  To execute the \*Lnohup\*O
system command, you must enter an absolute path.
.LI
To do the same, but redirect the standard output to
a different file, enter:
.iS
nohup  find  /  -print  >filenames  &
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This runs the \*Lfind\*O command and stores its output
in a file named \*Lfilenames\*O.
Now only the process ID and prompt are displayed.
.IP
Wait for a second or two before logging out, because the
\*Lnohup\*O command takes a moment to start the command you specified.
If you log out too quickly, \*Vutility\*O may not run at all.
Once \*Vutility\*O has started, logging out does not affect it.
.LI
To run more than one command, use a shell script.  For example, if
you include the following shell script:
.iS
comm -23 fi4 fi5 | comm -23 - fi6 | join -a1 - fi7 > comm.out
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
and name it \*Lncomm\*O, you can run \*Lnohup\*O for
all of the commands in \*Lncomm\*O by entering:
.iS
nohup sh ncomm
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
If you assign \*Lncomm\*O Execute permission, you can
obtain the same results by issuing the command:
.iS
nohup ncomm
.iE
\*O\c
.IP
To run this command in the background, enter:
.iS
nohup ncomm &
\*O\c
.iE
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.oS
\*Lnohup.out\*O
.oE
Standard output and standard error file for \*Lnohup\*O.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The term \*Lutility\*O, rather than the term \*Lcommand\*O, describes
the argument to \*Lnohup\*O because shell compound commands, pipelines,
special built-in programs, and the like, cannot be handled directly. In
addition, the term \*Lutility\*O includes user application programs and shell
scripts, not just the standard utilities.
.PP
The \*Lcsh\*O command contains a built-in
subcommand named \*Lnohup\*O.  The command and subcommand do not
work the same way.  For information on the \*Lcsh\*O built-in subcommand,
see the \*Lcsh\*O command.  To invoke the \*Lnohup\*O command,
use an absolute path (for example \*L/usr/bin/nohup\*O).
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
The \*Lnohup\*O command returns the following exit values:
.VL 4m
.LI "126"
The specified utility was found, but could not be invoked.
.LI "127"
The error occurred in the \*Lnohup\*O utility or the
specified utility could not be found.
.LE
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.PP
The exit status is otherwise that of the utility.
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcsh\*O(1), \*Lnice\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1).
.PP
Functions: \*Lsigaction\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
