.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: nroff.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/31 19:32:24 $
.\"
.TH nroff 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lnroff\*O \- Formats text
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Lnroff\*O [ \*Vflag\*O ... ] [ \*Vfile\*O ... ]
.SH FLAGS
.PP
Flags can appear in any order as long as they precede any file names.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-O\*Vlist\*O"
Prints only pages whose page numbers appear in the comma-separated
list of numbers and ranges specified in the \*Vlist\*O argument.
A range of \*VN\*O\-\*VM\*O means pages \*VN\*O through \*VM\*O.
An argument of the form \-\*VN\*O means from the beginning of the
text up to page \*VN\*O.  An argument of the form \*VN\*O\- means
from page \*VN\*O to the end of the text.
.LI "\*L\-n\*VN\\*O"
Directs \*Lnroff\*O to use \*VN\*O as the number for the first
generated page.
.LI "\*L\-s\*VN\*O"
Stops every \*VN\*O pages.  The \*Lnroff\*O command halts after
formatting \*VN\*O pages to allow paper reloading or changing
and resumes when it receives a new line signal.  The default for
\*VN\*O is 1.
.LI "\*L\-m\*Vname\*O"
Prepends the macro file \*L/usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.\*Vname\*O to the
files specified in the \*Lnroff\*O command line.
.LI "\*L\-r\*VaN\*O"
Sets register \*Va\*O to \*VN\*O.  The register specification is
limited to a single character.
.LI "\*L\-i\*O"
Reads from standard input after the specified list of files is
exhausted.
.LI "\*L\-q\*O"
Invokes the simultaneous input-output mode of the \&.\*Lrd\*O request.
.LI "\*L\-T\*Vname\*O"
Prepares output for the specified terminal.  The \*Vname\*O argument
refers to \*Ltab\*Vname\*O files in \*L/usr/share/lib/term\*O.  The
default name is \*Llpr\*O, which refers to a dumb 10-pitch printer
with no halfline or upline capability.
.LI "\*L\-e\*O"
Produces equally-spaced words in adjusted lines, using full terminal
resolution.
.LI "\*L\-h\*O"
Uses output tabs during horizontal spacing to speed output and reduce
output character count.  Tab settings are assumed to be every eight
nominal character widths.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "nroff text processor"
.iX "text processing" "nroff"
The \*Lnroff\*O command formats text in the specified files for
typewriter-like devices.  If no \*Vfile\*O argument is present, \*Lnroff\*O
reads from standard input.  An argument consisting of a single minus sign
(\*L\-\*O) is taken to be a file name corresponding to standard input.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 13m
.LI "\*L/tmp/ta*\*O"
Temporary file
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.*\*O"
Standard macro files
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/term/tab*\*O"
Terminal driver tables for \*Lnroff\*O
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lchecknr\*O(1),
\*Lman\*O(1), \*Lneqn\*O(1), \*Lsoelim\*O(1),
\*Ltbl\*O(1), \*Lcatman\*O(8).
.PP
Files:  \*Lterm\*O(4), \*Lman\*O(5), \*Lme\*O(5), \*Lms\*O(5),
\*Lrsml\*O(5)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
