.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ntp.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:35:54 $
.\"
.TH ntp 1
.SH NAME
ntp \- query a clock running a Network Time Protocol daemon, either ntpd or xntpd
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B /usr/bin/ntp
[
.B \-v
][
.B \-s
][
.B \-f
]
\*Vhost1 \f1|\fP IPaddress1 ...\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ntp command"
The \*Lntp\*O command is used to determine the offset between
the local clock and a remote clock.  It can
also be used to set the local host's time to
a remote host's time.  The \*Lntp\*O command
sends an NTP packet to the NTP daemon running
on each of the remote hosts specified on the command line.
The remote hosts must be running either the \*Lntpd\*O daemon or
\*Lxntpd\*O daemon.
When the NTP daemon on the remote host receives the NTP packet, it fills
in the fields (as specified in
RFC 1129), and sends the packet back.  The \*Lntp\*O command then formats
and prints the results on the standard output.
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.RS 5
You can specify hosts by either host name or Internet
address.  The hosts that you specify must either exist
in the \*L/etc/hosts\*O file, or in the master \*Lhosts\*O database,
if the database is being served to your system by BIND or Network
Information Service (NIS).
.sp 6p
.RE
.PP
The default output shows the roundtrip delay of the NTP packet in
seconds, the estimated offset between the local time
and remote time in seconds, and the date in \*Lctime\*O format.
See the \*Lctime\*O(3) reference page for more information.
.PP
The \*L\-s\*O and \*L\-f\*O options can be used to reset the time of the
local clock.
.\"       Removed per Terry Linsey's comments
.\"Use \*Lntp\*O with these options to initialize the system
.\"time prior to running the NTP daemon.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP \-v 5
Specifies verbose output.  The output shows the full contents of the
received NTP packets, plus the calculated offset and delay.
.IP \-s 5
Sets local clock to remote time.  This only happens if the
offset between the local and remote time is less than 1000 seconds.
The local clock is not reset if the remote host is unsynchronized.
.IP
If you specify more than one host name on the command line, \*Lntp\*O queries
each host in order, waiting for each host to answer
or timeout before querying the next host.  The local clock is set to the time
of the first remote host that responds.
.IP \-f 5
Forces setting local clock regardless of offset.  The \*L\-f\*O option
must be used with \*L\-s\*O option.  The local clock is not reset if
the remote host is unsynchronized.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Using the \*L\-s\*O and \*L\-f\*O options require that
you be logged on as superuser.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following is the default output to an \*Lntp\*O query
about a remote host with an internet address of 555.5.55.5:
.iX "ntp command" "sample output"
.oS
# \f(CB/usr/bin/ntp 555.5.55.5\f(CW
555.5.55.5: delay:1.845207 offset:-0.358460  Mon Aug 20 08:05:44 1991
.oE
.PP
The following is the verbose output to an \*Lntp\*O query
about the same remote host:
.oS
# \f(CB/usr/bin/ntp \-v 555.5.55.5\f(CW
Packet from: [555.5.55.5]
Leap 0, version 1, mode Server, poll 6, precision \-10 stratum 1 (WWVB)
Synch Distance is 0000.1999  0.099991
Synch Dispersion is 0000.0000  0.000000
Reference Timestamp is a7bea6c3.88b40000 Tue Aug 20 14:06:43 1991
Originate Timestamp is a7bea6d7.d7e6e652 Tue Aug 20 14:07:03 1991
Receive Timestamp is   a7bea6d7.cf1a0000 Tue Aug 20 14:07:03 1991
Transmit Timestamp is  a7bea6d8.0ccc0000 Tue Aug 20 14:07:04 1991
Input Timestamp is     a7bea6d8.1a77e5ea Tue Aug 20 14:07:04 1991
555.5.55.5: delay:0.019028 offset:-0.043890  Tue Aug 20 14:07:04 1991
.oE
.PP
The fields are interpreted as follows:
.IP "Packet from: [\f2internet address\fP]" 5
The address of the remote host from which this NTP packet was received.
.IP "Leap \f2n\fP" 5
The leap second indicator.  Non-zero if there is to be a
leap second inserted in the NTP timescale.  The bits are
set before 23:59 on the day of insertion and reset after
00:00 on the following day.
.IP "version \f2n\fP"
The NTP protocol version.
.IP "mode \f2type\fP"
The NTP mode can be Server, Client, Symmetric Passive,
Symmetric Active, or Broadcast. See RFC 1129 for more information
on NTP modes.
.IP "Poll \f2x\fP" 5
The desired poll rate of the peer in seconds as a power of 2.
For example, if poll is equal to
6, that means that the poll rate is one message exchanged every 2**6 seconds.
.IP "Precision \f2x\fP" 5
The precision of the remote host's clock in seconds as a power of 2.
For example, if precision is equal to
\-10, that means that the precision is 2**\-10.  The NTP daemon
sets this automatically.
.IP "Stratum \f2n\fP (\f2source\fP)" 5
The stratum of the clock in the NTP hierarchy, along with
the source of the clock.  The \f2source\fP is either the name of a reference
standard (such as WWVB or GOES), or the Internet address of
the clock that this clock references.
.IP "Synch Distance is \f2nn.nn nn.nn\fP" 5
The values reported are used internally by the NTP daemon.
.IP "Synch Dispersion is \f2nn.nn nn.nn\fP" 5
The values reported are used internally by the NTP daemon.
.PP
The next five timestamps are given as NTP fixed-point values, in
both hexadecimal and \*Lctime\*O. The timestamps are set either
by this NTP process, or by the remote host you
are querying.  These timestamps are used by the local host to calculate
delay and offset for this query.
.IP "Reference Timestamp is \f2hex-timestamp ctime_string\fP"
This specifies the last time the remote host clock was adjusted.
(remote time)
.IP "Originate Timestamp is \f2hex-timestamp ctime_string\fP"
This specifies when the NTP request was transmitted by the
local host to the remote host. (local time)
.IP "Receive Timestamp is \f2hex-timestamp ctime_string\fP"
This specifies when the NTP request was received at the remote
host.  (remote time)
.IP "Transmit Timestamp is \f2hex-timestamp ctime_string\fP"
This specifies when the NTP response was transmitted by the
remote host.  (remote time)
.IP "Input Timestamp is \f2hex-timestamp ctime_string\fP" 5
This specifies when the NTP response was received by the local host.
(local time)
.IP "\f2hostname\fP: delay:\f2time\fP offset:\f2time\fP" 5
This field summarizes the results of the query, giving the host name or
internet
address of the responding clock specified in the command line, the round-trip
delay in seconds, and the offset between the two clocks in
seconds (assuming symmetric round-trip times).
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The following error messages can be returned by NTP:
.TP 20
\*L*Timeout*\*O
.TP 20
\*Vhostname\*O \*Lis not responding\*O
May indicate that the NTP daemon is not running on the remote host.
.TP 20
\*LNo such host: \*Vhostname\*O
The NTP command cannot resolve the specified host name
in the \*L/etc/hosts\*O file.  Check that the host
exists in the \*L/etc/hosts\*O file, or that it exists in the
master \*Lhosts\*O database, if the database is being served to your system
by BIND or NIS.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lctime\*O(3), \*Lntp.conf\*O(4), \*Lntpdc\*O(8),
\*Lxntpd\*O(8), \*Lxntpdc\*O(8), \*Lntpq\*O(8)
.br
\f2RFC 1129\(emInternet time synchronization:  The Network Time Protocol\fP
.br
\*ENetwork and Communications Overview\*O
.br
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
.br
\*ENetwork Administration and Problem Solving\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
