.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: odump.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.4.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/15 17:25:46 $
.\" 
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright Unpublished, MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.  All Rights |
.\" | Reserved.  This software contains proprietary and confidential |
.\" | information of MIPS and its suppliers.  Use, disclosure or     |
.\" | reproduction is prohibited without the prior express written   |
.\" | consent of MIPS.                                               |
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Header: /usr/doc/osf1doc/refpages/rcs/src/BASE/DEC/man1/odump.1,v 3.2.4.3 1994/01/15 17:25:46 Jeff_Mandell Exp $
.TH odump 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lodump\*O \- Dumps selected parts of an object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\" Removed L and G flags from the SYNOPSIS list because the descriptions
.\" have been commented out.  MB
\*Lodump\*O [ \*L\-acfghil\*O[\*La48\*O]\*LorstuvzD\*O[\*Lcghilprst\*O]\*LPRX\*O[\*Lpx\*O] ] \*Vfile1\*O ... \*VfileN\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "odump command"
The \*Lodump\*O command dumps selected parts of each object \*Vfile\*O.
.PP
This command works for object files and archives of object files.
It accepts one or more of these flags:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-a\*O"
Dumps the archive header for each member of the specified archive file.
.LI "\*L\-c\*O"
Dumps the string table.
.LI "\*L\-f\*O"
Dumps each file header.
.LI "\*L\-g\*O"
Dumps the global symbols from the symbol table of an archive.
.LI "\*L\-h\*O"
Dumps section headers.
.LI "\*L\-i\*O"
Dumps the symbolic information header.
.LI "\*L\-l\*O"
Dumps line number information.
.LI "\*L\-o\*O"
Dumps each optional header.
.LI "\*L\-s\*O"
Dumps section contents.
.LI "\*L\-r\*O"
Dumps relocation information.
.LI "\*L\-t\*O"
Dumps symbol table entries.
.LI "\*L\-z \*Vname\*O"
Dumps line number entries for the specified function \*Vname\*O.
.LI "\*L\-D\*O"
Displays the \*L\&.dynamic\*O section for each file specified.
This section contains basic information describing where other sections
related to dynamic loading are located and the size of those sections.
You can use the \*L\-D\*O flag with modifiers as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-Dc\*O"
Displays the \*L\&.conflict\*O section for each file specified.
This conflict table lists symbols whose normal definition is overridden
at runtime. This table is not currently used in this release.
.LI "\*L\-Dg\*O"
Displays the \*L\&.got\*O section for each file specified.
The GOT (global offset table) contains the addresses of each symbol
exported or imported by the shared object.
.LI "\*L\-Dh\*O"
Displays the \*L\&.hash\*O section for each file specified.
This hash table contains entries for each name in the
\*L\&.dynsym\*O section and is used for fast lookup of symbols.
.LI "\*L\-Di\*O"
Displays the \*L\&.reginfo\*O section for each file named.
This section contains the register usage as found in the coff a.out
optional header. This tells the kernel whether
this program will ever use coprocessor registers (fp registers). This
is provided for backward compatibility.
.LI "\*L\-Dl\*O"
Displays the \*L\&.liblist\*O section for each file named.
This section contains a list of those shared libraries needed by this object.
.LI "\*L\-Dp\*O"
Displays the package information for each file specified.
Imported packages represent groups of symbols in other shared objects
that are referenced by this shared object. Exported packages represent
groups of symbols in this shared object that can be referenced by
other shared objects.
.LI "\*L\-Dr\*O"
Displays the dynamic relocation tables for each file specified.
Each relocation entry represents a reference to a symbol in shared library.
.LI "\*L\-Ds\*O"
Displays the \*L\&.dynstr\*O section for each file specified.
This section contains strings referenced by other tables and sections
related to dynamic loading.
.LI "\*L\-Dt\*O"
Displays the \*L\&.dynsym\*O section for each file specified.
This is a table of all symbols.
.LE
.\" Removing per QAR 7169.  See QAR 9819.
.\" .LI "\*L\-L\*O"
.\" Interprets and displays the contents of the \*V.lib\*O sections.
.LI "\*L\-F\*O"
Dumps the file descriptor table.
.\" .LI "\*L\-G\*O"
.\" Dumps the \*L\-G \*Vn\*O" histogram table.
.LI "\*L\-P\*O"
Dumps the procedure descriptor table.
.LI "\*L\-R\*O"
Dumps the relative file index table.
.LE
.PP
The \*Lodump\*O command accepts these modifiers with the flags:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-d \|\*Vnumber\*O"
Dumps the section number or a range of sections starting at \*Vnumber\*O
and ending either at the last section number or the \*Vnumber\*O
you specify with \*L+d\*O.
.LI "\*L+d \|\*Vnumber\*O"
Dumps sections in the range beginning with the first section or beginning
with the section you specify with \*L\-d\*O.
.LI "\*L\-n \|\*Vname\*O"
Dumps information only about the specified \*Vname\*O.
This modifier works with \*L\-h\*O, \*L\-s\*O, \*L\-r\*O, \*L\-l\*O,
and \*L\-t\*O.
.LI "\*L\-p\*O"
Does not display headers.
.LI "\*L\-t \|\*Vindex\*O"
Dumps only the indexed symbol table entry.
You can also specify a range of symbol table entries by using the modifier
\*L\-t\*O with the \*L+t\*O flag.
.LI "\*L+t \|\*Vindex\*O"
Dumps the symbol table entries in the specified range.
The range begins at the first symbol table entry or at the entry
specified by \*L\-t\*O.  The range ends with the specified indexed entry.
.LI "\*L\-u\*O"
Underlines the name of the file for emphasis.
.LI "\*L\-v\*O"
Dumps information symbolically rather than numerically (for example,
\*LStatic\*O rather than \*L0X02\*O).  You can use \*L\-v\*O
with all the flags except \*L\-s\*O.
.LI "\*L\-z \|\*Vname\*L,\*Vnumber\*O"
Dumps the specified line number entry or a range of line numbers.  The
range starts at the \*Vnumber\*O for the named function.
.LI "\*L\+z \|\*Vnumber\*O"
Dumps line numbers for a specified range.  The range starts at either the
\*Vname\*O pr \*Lnumber\*O specified by \*L\-z\*O.  The range ends with the
\*Vnumber\*O specified by \*L+z\*O.
.LI "\*L\-l\*Vx\*O"
Dumps the contents of a literal section; with \*Vx\*L specifying
the section to dump, as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-l4\*O"
Dumps the 4-byte literal section.
.LI "\*L\-l8\*O"
Dumps the 8-byte literal section.
.LI "\*L\-la\*O"
Dumps the address literal section.
.LE
.LI "\*L\-Xp\*O"
Dumps the exception procedure table.
.LI "\*L\-Xx\*O"
Enhances the \*L\-Xp\*O output to show scope
table information for each entry. The \*L\-Xx\*O option must be
used with the \*L\-Xp\*O option.
.LE
.LE
.PP
Optionally, a flag and its modifier can be separated by using blanks.
The name can be separated from the number that modifies \*L\-z\*O
by replacing the comma with a blank.
.PP
The \*Lodump\*O command tries to format information in a helpful way,
displaying information in character, hexadecimal, octal, or decimal, as
appropriate.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*La.out\*O(4), \*Lar\*O(4)
.PP
\*EProgrammer's Guide\*O
.br
\*EAssembly Language Programmer's Guide\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
