.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: packf.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:36:15 $
.\"
.TH packf 1
.SH NAME
packf \- compress a folder into a single file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B packf
[
\*V+folder\*O
] [
\*Vmsgs\*O
] [
.B \-file
\*Vname\*O
] [
.B \-help
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "packf command"
.PP
Each message in a folder is normally stored
as a separate file.
The \*Lpackf\*O command takes all messages from the current folder
and copies them to a single specified file.
Each message in the file is separated by four <CTRL/A>s
and a newline.
.PP
You can specify a folder other than the current folder
by using the
\*V+folder\*O
argument.
If you do not want all the messages in a folder
to be packed into one file,
you can specify a number of messages
or a range of messages with message numbers.
.PP
The first message packed will become the current message.
If you specify a
\*V+folder \*O
argument, that folder will become the current folder.
.PP
When messages have been packed into a file using \*Lpackf\*O, you can
separate them into individual messages using the \*Lburst\*O command.
See \*Lburst\*O(1).
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP "\-file \f2name\f3" 10
Specifies the file in which you want the message(s)
to be stored.
If you specify an existing file then the specified messages
will be appended to the end of that file.
Otherwise, a new file will be created and the messages placed in it.
If you do not specify a filename, \*Lpackf\*O attempts
to place the messages in a file called \*Lmsgbox\*O in
the current working directory. If this file does not exist, \*Lpackf\*O asks
whether you want to create it.
.\"
.IP "\-help" 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.PP
The default settings for this command are:
.IP
\*V+folder\*O
defaults to the current folder
.br
\*Vmsgs\*O
defaults to all
.br
.B "\-file ./msgbox"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The first example shows all the messages in the folder \*L+lrp\*O being
packed into a file called \*Lplanning\*O:
.oS
% \f(CBpackf +lrp -file planning\f(CW
.oE
.PP
The next example shows how \*Lpackf\*O prompts you if you do not specify a
.B "\-file"
option.
A file called \*Lmsgbox\*O is created by \*Lpackf\*O in your home directory,
and messages 3 to 5 are packed into it:
.oS
% \f(CBpackf +lrp 3-5\f(CW
Create file "/machine/disk/username/msgbox"? \f(CBy\f(CW
.oE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine the user's Mail directory
Msg-Protect:+To set protections when creating a new file
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
$HOME/\&.mh_profile+The user profile.
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lburst\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
