.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pack.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/13 21:49:24 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Recoded stuff to accommodate tman.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.\" 
.TH pack 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lpack\*O, \*Lpcat\*O, \*Lunpack\*O \- Compresses and expands files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lpack\*O
\*O[\*L-f\*O]
\*O[\*L-\*O]
\*Vfile\*O
\&...
.PP
\*Lunpack\*O
\*Vfile\*O[\*L\&.z\*O]
\&...
.PP
\*Lpcat\*O
\*Vfile\*O[\*L\&.z\*O]
\&...
.sE
.PP
The \*Lpack\*O command stores the specified file in a compressed form.
The input file is replaced by a packed file with a
name derived from the original filename (\*Vfile\*L.z\*O),
with the same access modes, access and modification dates, and owner as
the original file.
.gL "compressed files"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-\*O"
Displays statistics about the input files. The statistics
are calculated from a Huffman minimum redundancy code tree built on a
byte-by-byte basis.  Repeating the \*L-\*O (dash) on the command line
toggles this function.
.LI "\*L-f\*O"
Forces compaction of input files.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "pack command"
.iX "pcat command"
.iX "unpack command"
.iX "compressing files"
.iX "files" "compressing"
.iX "files" "expanding"
.iX "files" "squeezing"
.iX "files" "packing"
.iX "expanding" "files"
.iX "squeezing files"
Directories cannot be compressed.
.PP
If \*Lpack\*O cannot create a smaller file, it stops processing
and reports that it is unable to save space, unless you specify
\*L-f\*O.  (The \*L-f\*O flag forces packing to occur even if the
files cannot benefit from packing.)  A failure to save space
generally happens with small files or files with uniform character
distribution.
.PP
The amount of space saved depends on the size of the
input file and the character frequency distribution.  Because a decoding
tree forms the first part of each \*L.z\*O file, you will generally
not be able to save space with files smaller than three blocks.
Typically, text files are reduced 25 to 40 percent.
.PP
Object files,which use a larger character set and have a more uniform
distribution of characters, show only a 10 percent reduction when
packed.
.PP
The exit value of the \*Lpack\*O command is the number of files
that it could not pack.
Packing is not done under any one of the
following conditions:
.ML
.LI
The file is already packed.
.LI
The file has links.
.LI
The file is a directory.
.LI
The file cannot be opened.
.LI
No storage blocks are saved by packing.
.LI
A file called \*Vfile\*L.z\*O already exists.
.LI
The \*L.z\*O file cannot be created.
.LI
An I/O error occurs during processing.
.LI
The filename has more than \*LNAME_MAX\*O-2 bytes.
.LI
The file is empty.
.LE
.SS \*Lpcat\*O
The \*Lpcat\*O command reads the specified files,
unpacks them, and writes them to standard output.
.PP
The exit value of \*Lpcat\*O is the number of files it was
unable to unpack.
A file cannot be unpacked if any one of the following
occurs:
.ML
.LI
The file cannot be opened.
.LI
The file is not a packed file.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Revising out the following lines per QAR 8188 and subsequent mail. 
.LI
The filename (exclusive of the \*L.z\*O) has more than 12 bytes and it
resides on a System V file system.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.LE
.SS \*Lunpack\*O
The \*Lunpack\*O command expands files created by
\*Lpack\*O.  For each file specified, \*Lunpack\*O searches
for a file called \*Vfile\*L.z\*O.  If this file is a
packed file, \*Lunpack\*O replaces it by its expanded version.  The
\*Lunpack\*O command names the new filename by removing the \*L.z\*O
suffix from \*Vfile\*O.  The new file has the same
access modes, access and modification dates, and owner as the original
packed file.
.PP
The exit value is the number of files the \*Lunpack\*O command
was unable to unpack.
A file cannot be unpacked if any one of the
following occurs:
.ML
.LI
The file cannot be opened.
.LI
The file is not a packed file.
.LI
A file with the unpacked filename already exists.
.LI
The unpacked file cannot be created.
.LI
The filename has more than \*LNAME_MAX\*O-2 bytes.
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
.AL
.LI
Both \*Lpcat\*O and \*Lunpack\*O operate only on files ending
in \*L.z\*O.  As a result, when you specify a filename that does
not end in \*L.z\*O, \*Lpcat\*O and \*Lunpack\*O
add the suffix and search the directory for a filename with that suffix.
.LI
The \*Lunpack\*O command writes a warning to standard output
if the file it is unpacking has links.  The new unpacked file has a
different inode than the packed file from which it was created.
However, any other files linked to the packed file's original inode
still exist and are still packed.
.LI
If \*Lpack\*O is used on files residing on a System V file system,
the filenames must contain no more than 12 bytes to allow space
for the added \*L\&.z\*O extension.
.LI
If you try to use \*Lpack\*O on a very small file, you might receive
the following message:
.oS
pack \*Vfilename\*C: No saving -- file unchanged
\*O\c
.oE
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To compress files, enter:
.iS
pack chap1 chap2
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This compresses the files \*Lchap1\*O and \*Lchap2\*O, replacing
them with files named \*Lchap1.z\*O and
\*Lchap2.z\*O.  The \*Lpack\*O command displays the percent
decrease in size for each file.
.LI
To display statistics about the amount of compression done, enter:
.iS
pack  -  chap1  -  chap2
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This compresses the files \*Lchap1\*O and \*Lchap2\*O and displays
statistics about \*Lchap1\*O, but not about \*Lchap2\*O.
The first \*L-\*O (dash) turns on the statistic display,
and the second turns it off.
.LI
To display compressed files, enter:
.iS
pcat  chap1.z  chap2 |  more
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This displays the compressed files \*Lchap1.z\*O
and \*Lchap2.z\*O on the screen in expanded form, a
page at a time (\*Lmore\*O).  Note that \*Lpcat\*O
added the \*L.z\*O to the end of \*Lchap2\*O, even
though it was not entered.
.LI
To use a compressed file without expanding the copy stored on disk, enter:
.iS
pcat chap1.z  |  grep  'Greece'
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This pipes the contents of \*Lchap1.z\*O in its expanded form
to the \*Lgrep\*O command.
.LI
To unpack packed files, enter:
.iS
unpack  chap1.z  chap2
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This expands the packed files \*Lchap1.z\*O
and \*Lchap2.z\*O, replacing them with files
named \*Lchap1\*O and \*Lchap2\*O.
Note that you can give \*Lunpack\*O filenames
either with or without the \*L.z\*O suffix.
.LE
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
The return value of the \*Lpack\*O command is the number of files
that it could not pack.
The exit value of both the \*Lpcat\*O and \*Lunpack\*O
commands is the number of files it was unable to unpack.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcat\*O(1), \*Lcompress\*O(1)/\*Luncompress\*O(1)/\*Lzcat\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
