.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: passwd.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.7.8 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/14 23:24:38 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.TH passwd 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lpasswd\*O, \*Lchfn\*O, \*Lchsh\*O \- Changes password file information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lpasswd\*O
\*O[\*L\-f\*O
|
\*L\-s\*O]
\*O[\*Vusername\*O]
.PP
\*Lchfn\*O
\*O[\*Vusername\*O]
.PP
\*Lchsh\*O
\*O[\*Vusername\*O]
.sE
.PP
This security-sensitive command uses the SIA (Security
Integration Architecture) routine
as an interface to the security mechanisms. See the
\*Lmatrix.conf\*O(4)
reference page for more information.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "passwd command"
.iX "chfn command"
.iX "chsh command"
.iX "changing" "passwords"
.iX "changing" "GECOS information fields"
.iX "changing" "login shells"
.iX "password" "changing"
.iX "GECOS information field" "changing"
.iX "login shell" "changing"
.iX "password" "file"
.iX "files" "password"
.\" #else /* SEC_BASE */
.PP
The \*Lpasswd\*O command changes (or installs) the password associated
with your username (by default) or the specified \*Vusername\*O.
The \*Lchfn\*O command changes GECOS information associated with your
username or the specified \*Vusername\*O.
The \*Lchsh\*O command changes the login shell of your username or of the
specified \*Vusername\*O.
When altering a password, the program prompts for the current password
and then for the new one.  The caller must supply both.  The new password
must be typed twice to forestall mistakes.
.PP
Each password must have at least six characters and can include digits,
symbols, and the letters of your alphabet.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Changed the wording to satisfy QAR 10745 after talking with
.\"   Dave Long to determine the intent of the implementation.
It is strongly suggested that you include unusual punctuation,
control characters, or digits in your password.  Use of only
lowercase letters is discouraged.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
If you enter more than eight characters when
creating a password, the \*Lpasswd\*O command ignores any characters after the
eighth.
.\" #endif /* SEC_BASE */
.PP
When altering the GECOS information field, \*Lchfn\*O displays
the current information, broken into fields, as interpreted
by the \*Lfinger\*O program, among others, and prompts for new values.
These fields include a user's proper name, office room number,
office phone number, and home phone number.  Included in each prompt
is a default value, which is enclosed in [ ] (brackets).  The default
value is accepted simply by pressing \*L<Return>\*O.  To enter a
blank field, the word \*Lnone\*O can be entered.
.PP
The \*Lchfn\*O command allows phone numbers to be entered with or without
dashes.  It is a good idea to run \*Lfinger\*O after changing the
GECOS information to make sure everything is set up properly.
.PP
A superuser can change anyone's GECOS information; other users can
only change their own.
.PP
When altering a login shell, \*Lchsh\*O displays the current login
shell and then prompts for the new one.  The new login shell must be
one of the approved shells listed in \*L/etc/shells\*O unless you have
superuser privileges.
If \*L/etc/shells\*O does not exist, the only shells that can be
specified are \*L/usr/bin/sh\*O and \*L/usr/bin/csh\*O.
.PP
A superuser can change anyone's login shell; normal users can only
change their own login shell.
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBSecurity Note\fP
.sp 6p
.rS 5
If you have enhanced security installed on your system,
the \*Lpasswd\*O program operates as follows:
.PP
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
When you use the \*Lpasswd\*O command,
the system prompts for the existing password (if any), and begins a
password solicitation dialog that depends on the options for password
generation the ISSO
has enabled for your account.  There are four
possible options:
.VL 8m
.LI "Random syllables"
A pronounceable password made up of meaningless syllables.
.LI "Random characters"
An unpronounceable password made up of random characters from the
character set.
.LI "Random letters"
An unpronounceable password made up of random letters from the alphabet.
.LI "User supplied"
The user specifies the password, subject to length and triviality
restrictions.
.LE
.PP
The ISSO specifies a
maximum length for all user passwords.  The minimum
password length depends on several parameters the Security Manager sets in the
authentication databases.
.PP
The system requires a minimum time to elapse before you can change your
password.  This stops you from reusing an old password too soon.
.PP
A password expires after a period of time known as the \*Vexpiration time\*O.
The system warns you when the expiration time is drawing near.
.PP
A password dies after a period of time known as the \*Vpassword lifetime\*O.
After the lifetime passes, your account is locked until the Security Manager
reenables it.  After unlocking, you must change your password again
before you can use your account.
.PP
When you successfully type your old password, the system prints the last
successful and unsuccessful password change times.  Make sure that these
times are accurate; use them to detect attempted password
changes by a malicious user.
.PP
You can change your own password if the Security Manager
has enabled any of the password
generation options for your account.
.\" You can change another user's
.\" password only if you
.\" have the \*Lpassword\*O command authorization.
.PP
See the
\*EEnhanced Security\*O
for detailed instructions on changing your password.
.sp 6p
.PP
.sp 6p
.ce 1
\f(HBEnd Security Note\fP
.sp 6p
.PP
.rE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-f\*O"
Invokes the \*Lchfn\*O command when given with the \*Lpasswd\*O command.
.LI "\*L\-s\*O"
Invokes the \*Lchsh\*O command when given with the \*Lpasswd\*O command.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL 3m
.LI
To change your password, enter:
.iS
passwd
\*O\c
.iE
.sp
You are prompted for your old password (if it exists).  You are
then prompted twice for the new password.
.LI
To change the office number and building values in your GECOS
information, enter:
.iS
chfn
\*O\c
.iE
.sp
Your current GECOS values are displayed.  Follow the instructions and
change your office number.  For example, enter:
.iS
Name [Huan Kim]:
Room Number [3A-41]:\*L 4A-43
Office Phone [3-1234]:
Home Phone [555-1234]:
\c
.iE
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O"
Contains user information.
.LI "\*L/etc/shells\*O"
The list of approved shells.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lfinger\*O(1), \*Llogin\*O(1).
.PP
Files: \*Lmatrix.conf\*O(4), \*Lpasswd\*O(4).
.\" #ifdef SEC_BASE
.PP
\*EEnhanced Security\*O
.\" #endif /* SEC_BASE */
.EQ
delim off
.EN
