.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: paste.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/15 14:51:44 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH paste 1
.SH NAME
\*Lpaste\*O \- Joins corresponding lines of several files or subsequent lines in one file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lpaste\*O
[
\*L-d\*Vlist\*O
]
\*O[\*L-s\*O]
\*Vfile\*O
\&...
.sE
.PP
The \*Lpaste\*O command reads input files (or standard input
if you specify a \*L-\*O (dash) instead of a filename), joins
corresponding lines, and writes the result to standard output.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-d\*Vlist\*O"
Replaces the delimiter that separates lines in the
output (tab by default) with one or more characters from \*Vlist\*O.
If \*Vlist\*O contains more than one character, then the characters are
repeated in order until the end of the output.  In parallel merging, the
lines from the last file always end with a newline character, instead of
one from \*Vlist\*O.
.IP
The following special characters can be used in \*Vlist\*O:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\en\*O"
Newline character
.LI "\*L\et\*O"
Tab
.LI "\*L\e\e\*O"
Backslash
.LI "\*L\e0\*O"
Empty string (not a null character)
.LI "\*Vc\*O"
An extended character
.LE
.IP
You must quote characters that have special meaning to the shell.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Merges all lines from each input file into one line of output (serial
merging).  With this flag, \*Lpaste\*O works through one entire file before
starting on the next.  When it finishes merging the lines in one file, it
forces a newline and then merges the lines in the next input file, continuing
in the same way through the remaining input files, one at a time.  A tab
separates the input lines unless you use the \*L-d\*O flag.  Regardless
of the \*Vlist\*O, the last character of the output is a
newline character.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "paste command"
.iX "joining" "lines from several files"
.iX "joining" "subsequent lines in a file"
.iX "files" "joining lines from more than one"
.iX "files" "joining subsequent lines from"
.iX "merging" "lines from several files"
.iX "merging" "subsequent lines in a file"
.iX "files" "merging lines from more than one"
.iX "files" "merging subsequent lines from"
.PP
Without a flag, or with the \*L-d\*O flag, \*Lpaste\*O
treats each file as a column and joins them horizontally with a tab
character by default (parallel merging).
.PP
With the \*L-s\*O flag, \*Lpaste\*O combines all lines of each input file into
one output line (serial merging).  These lines are joined with
the tab character by default.
.PP
Output lines can be any length.
.PP
Note that the output of \*Lpr -t -m\*O is similar to that of \*Lpaste\*O,
but creates extra spaces, tabs, and lines for an enhanced page layout.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL 3m
.LI
To paste several columns of data together, enter:
.iS
paste  names  places  dates  > npd
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This creates a file named \*Lnpd\*O that contains the data
from \*Lnames\*O in one column, \*Lplaces\*O in another,
and \*Ldates\*O in a third.  The columns are separated by tab characters.
.IP
\*Lnpd\*O then contains:
.br
.iS
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.\" Deleted line with names of files as "column heads"
.\" End Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
rachel          New York        28 February
jerzy           Warsaw          27 April
mata            Nairobi         21 June
michel          Boca Raton      27 July
segui           Managua         18 November
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
A tab character separates the name, place, and date on each line.
.LI
To separate the columns with a character other than a tab
(\*Lsh\*O only), enter:
.iS
paste  -d"!@"  names  places  dates  > npd
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This alternates \*L!\*O and \*L@\*O as the column
separators.  If \*Lnames\*O, \*Lplaces\*O, and \*Ldates\*O
are the same as in Example 1,
then \*Lnpd\*O contains:
.iS
rachel!New York@28 February
jerzy!Warsaw@27 April
mata!Nairobi@21 June
michel!Boca Raton@27 July
segui!Managua@18 November
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To display the standard input in multiple columns, enter:
.iS
ls | paste  -  -  -  -
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This lists the current directory in four columns.
Each \*L-\*O (dash) tells \*Lpaste\*O to create a column
containing data read from the standard input.
The first line is put in the first column, the second line in the second
column, \&.\&.\&. and then the fifth line in the first column, and so on.
.IP
This is equivalent to
.iS
ls | paste -d"\et\et\et\en"  -s  -
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
which fills the columns across the page with subsequent lines from
the standard input.  The \*L-d\et\et\et\en\*O
defines the character to insert after each column:
a tab character (\*L\et\*O) after the first three columns,
and a newline character (\*L\en\*O) after the fourth.
Without the \*L-d\*O flag, \*Lpaste -s -\*O displays all
of the input as one line with a tab between each column.
.LI
To merge the lines of the file \*Lnames\*O above into one output
line, enter:
.iS
paste -s names
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This results in:
.iS
rachel  jerzy   mata    michel  segui
\*O\c
.iE
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcut\*O(1), \*Lgrep\*O(1)/\*Legrep\*O(1)/\*Lfgrep\*O(1),
\*Ljoin\*O(1), \*Lpr\*O(1).
.\".PP
.\" "Using Internationalization Features" in the 
.EQ
delim off
.EN
