.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pathchk.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/03 12:48:54 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.\"build rmifdef tbl eqn
.TH pathchk 1
.SH NAME
\*Lpathchk\*O \- Checks pathnames
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lpathchk\*O
[\*L\(hyp\*O]
\*Vpathname\*O\ \&.\&.\&.
.sE
.PP
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
The \*Lpathchk\*O command checks that one or more pathnames
are valid (that is, they can be used to access or create
a file without causing syntax errors) and portable (that is, no
filename truncation will result).
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Performs pathname checks based on POSIX portability
standards.  An error message is sent if any of the following
conditions are true:
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.ML
.LI
The byte length of the full pathname is longer than allowed by POSIX standards
(\*L_POSIX_PATH_MAX\*O).
.LI
The byte length of a component is longer than allowed by POSIX standards
(\*L_POSIX_NAME_MAX\*O).
.LI
A character in any component is not in the portable filename character set.
.LE
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "pathchk command"
.iX "pathnames" "checking"
.PP
By default, the \*Lpathchk\*O command checks
each component of each pathname specified by the \*Vpathname\*O
argument based on the underlying file system.  If the \*L-p\*O flag is
not specified, \*Lpathchk\*O sends an error message if any of the
following conditions are true:
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.ML
.LI
The byte length of the full pathname is longer than allowed by the system
(\*LPATH_MAX\*O bytes).
.LI
The byte length of a component is longer than allowed by the system
(\*LNAME_MAX\*O bytes).
.LI
Search permission is not allowed for a component.
.LI
A character in any component is not valid in its containing directory.
.LE
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.PP
It is not considered an error if one or more components of a
pathname do not exist, as long as a file matching the pathname specified
by the \*Vpathname\*O argument could be created without
violating any of the preceding criteria.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To check the validity and portability of the
\*L/u/bob/work/tempfiles\*O pathname, enter:
.iS
pathchk /u/bob/work/tempfiles
.iE
.LI
To check the validity and portability of the
\*L/u/bob/temp\*O pathname for POSIX standards, enter:
.iS
pathchk -p\ /u/bob/temp
.iE
.LE
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
The \*Lpathchk\*O command returns the following exit values:
.VL 4m
.LI "0"
All pathname operands passed the checks.
.LI ">0"
An error occurred.
.LE
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
