.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pax.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/13 21:03:30 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"build rmifdef
.\"
.\"
.\"build rmifdef tbl eqn
.TH pax 1
.SH NAME
\*Lpax\*O \- Extracts, writes, and lists archive files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SS Listing Member Files of Archived Files
.IP
.sS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*Lpax\*O
\*O[\*L\(hycdnv\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyf\*O\ \*Varchive\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hys\ \*Vreplacement_string\*O]\ \&.\&.\&.
\*O[\*Vpattern\*O\ \&.\&.\&.]
.in -.5i
.SS Extracting Archive Files
.IP
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*Lpax \(hyr\*O
\*O[\*L\(hycdiknuv\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyf\*O\ \*Varchive\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyp\*O\ \*Vstring\*O]\ \&.\&.\&.
\*O[\*L\(hys\*O\ \*Vreplacement_string\*O]\ \&.\&.\&.
\*O[\*Vpattern\*O\ \&.\&.\&.]
.in -.5i
.SS Writing Archive Files
.IP
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*Lpax \(hyw\*O
\*O[\*L\(hyadituvVX\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyb\*O\ \*Vblocksize\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyf\*O\ \*Varchive\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hys\*O\ \*Vreplacement_string\*O]\ \&.\&.\&.
\*O[\*L\(hyx\*O\ \*Vformat\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O\ \&.\&.\&.]
.in -.5i
.SS Copying Files
.IP
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*Lpax
\*L\(hyr\*O
\*L\(hyw\*O
\*O[\*L\(hydiklntuvVX\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyp\*O\ \*Vstring\*O]\ \&.\&.\&.
\*O[\*L\(hys\*O\ \*Vreplacement_string\*O]\ \&.\&.\&.
\*O[\*Vfile\*O\ \&.\&.\&.]
\*Vdirectory\*O
.in -.5i
.sE
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.IP
The \*Lpax\*O command extracts, writes, and lists members of archive
files.  It also copies files and directory hierarchies.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Appends files to the end of the archive.  Certain devices might not
support appending.
.LI "\*L-b \*Vblocksize\*O"
Specifies the block size for output to be the positive decimal integer of bytes
specified by the \*Vblocksize\*O argument. The block size value
cannot exceed 32,256.  Blocking is automatically determined on input.
.IP
Do not specify a value
for the \*Vblocking\*O argument larger than 32768. Default
blocking when creating archives depends on the archive
format. (See the \*L-x\*O flag description.)
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Matches all file or archive members except those specified
by the \*Vpattern\*O or \*Vfile\*O arguments.
.LI "\*L-d\*O"
Causes directories being copied or archived, or archived
directories being extracted, to match only the directory or archived
directory itself and not the contents of the directory or archived directory.
.LI "\*L-f\*O \*Varchive\*O"
Specifies the path of an archive file to be used instead of standard input (when
the \*L-w\*O flag is not specified) or the standard output (when the \*L-w\*O
flag is specified but the \*L-r\*O flag is not). When specified with the
\*L-a\*O flag, any files written to the archive are
appended to the end of the archive.
.LI "\*L-i\*O"
Interactively renames files or archives interactively. For each
archive member that matches the \*Vpattern\*O argument or file
that matches a \*Vfile\*O argument, a prompt is written to the
tty (\*L/dev/tty\*O)
that contains the name of a file or archive member. A line
is then read from the tty. If this line is empty, the file or
archive member is skipped. If this line consists of a dot,
the file or archive member is processed with no modification to its
name. Otherwise, its name is replaced with the contents of the line.
The \*Lpax\*O command immediately exits with a nonzero exit status
if an End-of-File is encountered when reading a response
or if it cannot read or write to the tty.
.LI "\*L-k\*O"
Prevents the \*Lpax\*O command from writing over existing files.
.LI "\*L-l\*O"
Links files when copying files.  When both \*L-r\*O and \*L-w\*O
are specified, hard links are established
between the source and destination file hierarchies whenever possible.
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Selects the first archive member that matches each \*Vpattern\*O argument.
No more than one archive member is matched for each pattern (although
members of type directory will still match the file hierarchy rooted
at that file).
.LI "\*L-p\*O \*Vstring\*O"
Specifies one or more file characteristics
to be retained or discarded on extraction. The \*Vstring\*O argument
consists of the characters \*La\*O, \*Le\*O, \*Lm\*O, \*Lo\*O,
and \*Lp\*O. Multiple characteristics can be concatenated within
the same string and multiple \*L-p\*O flags can be specified. The
specification flags have the following meanings:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*La\*O"
Does not retain file-access times.
.LI "\*Le\*O"
Retains the user ID, group ID, access permission, access
time, and modification time.
.LI "\*Lm\*O"
Does not retain file-modification times.
.LI "\*Lo\*O"
Retains the user ID and the group ID.
.LI "\*Lp\*O"
Retains the access permission.
.LE
.IP
Note that "retain" means that an attribute stored in the archive is
given to the extracted file, subject to the permissions of the
invoking process; otherwise, the attribute is determined as part of
the normal file creation action.
.LI
If neither the \*Le\*O nor the \*Lo\*O flag is specified,
or the user ID and group ID are not retained, the \*Lpax\*O command
does not set the \*LS_ISUID\*O and \*LS_ISGID\*O bits of the
access permission. If the retention of any of these items fails, the \*Lpax\*O
command writes a diagnostic message to standard error. Failure to retain any of
the items affects the exit status, but does not cause the extracted file to be
deleted. If specification flags are duplicated or conflict with each other, the
ones given last take precedence. For example, if
\*L-p eme\*O is specified, file-modification times are retained.
.LI "\*L-r\*O"
Reads an archive file and any associated extended attributes from the standard input.
.LI "\*L-s \*Vreplacement_string\*O"
Modifies file-member or
archive-member names specified by the \*Vpattern\*O or
\*Vfile\*O arguments according to the substitution expression
\*Vreplacement_string\*O, using the syntax of the \*Led\*O command. The
substitution expression has the following format:
.iS
-s /\*Vold\*L/\*Vnew\*L/ \*O[\*Lgp\*O]
.iE
.IP
whereas in the \*Led\*O command,  \*Vold\*O is a basic
regular expression and \*Vnew\*O can contain an \*L&\*O (ampersand),
\*L\e\*Vn\*O (\*Vn\*O is a digit) back references, or subexpression
matching. The \*Vold\*O string can also contain newline characters.
.IP
Any nonnull character can be used as a delimiter. The slash (\*L/\*O)
character is the delimiter in the previous format). Multiple \*L-s\*O flag
expressions can be specified; the expressions are applied in the order
specified, terminating with the first successful substitution. The
optional trailing \*Lg\*O character performs as in the \*Led\*O
command. The optional trailing \*Lp\*O  character causes successful
substitutions to be written to the standard error. File-member
or archive-member names that substitute
to the empty string are ignored when reading
and writing archives.
.LI "\*L-t\*O"
Causes the access times of the archived files to be
the same as they were before being read by the \*Lpax\*O command.
.LI "\*L-u\*O"
Ignores files that are older (having a less recent file modification
time) than a preexisting file or archive member with the same name.
.IP
When extracting files (\*L-r\*O flag), an archive member with the same name as
a file in the file system is extracted if the archive member is newer
than the file.
.IP
When writing files to an archive file (\*L-w\*O flag), an archive member with
the same name as a file in the file system is superseded if the file
is newer than the archive member.
.IP
When copying files to a destination directory (\*L-rw\*O flags),
the file in the destination hierarchy is replaced by
the file in the source hierarchy
or by a link to the file in the source hierarchy if the file in the
source hierarchy is newer.
.LI "\*L-v\*O"
Writes information about the process. If neither the \*L-r\*O or \*L-w\*O flags
are specified, the \*L-v\*O flag produces a verbose table of contents
that resembles the output of \*Lls -l\*O;
otherwise, archive-member pathnames are written to standard error.
.LI "\*L-V\*O"
Prevents any extended attributes from being archived with associated files.
This option is particularly useful for archiving files that are to be
restored with previous versions of \*Ltar\*O and \*Lcpio\*O.
.LI "\*L-w\*O"
Writes files and any extended attributes to the standard output in the specified archive format.
.LI "\*L-x\*V format\*O"
Specifies the output archive format. The \*Lpax\*O
command recognizes the following formats:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lcpio\*O"
Extended \*Lcpio\*O interchange format. The default
blocking value for this format for character special archive files
is 5120. Blocking values from 512 to 32,256 in increments of 512 are supported.
.LI "\*Lustar\*O"
Extended \*Ltar\*O interchange format.  This is the default
output archive format.  The default
blocking value for this format for character special archive files
is 10240. Blocking values from 512 to 32,256 in increments of 512 are supported.
.LE
.LI
Any attempt to append to an archive file in a format different
from the existing archive format causes the \*Lpax\*O command to
exit immediately with a nonzero exit status.
.LI "\*L-X\*O"
When traversing the file hierarchy specified by a pathname, the \*Lpax\*O
command does not descend into directories that have a different device ID.
.LE
.SS Flag Interaction and Processing Order
.if n .PP
The flags that operate on the names of files or archive members
(\*L-c\*O, \*L-i\*O, \*L-n\*O, \*L-s\*O, \*L-u\*O,
and \*L-v\*O) interact as follows.
.if n .PP
When extracting files (\*L-r\*O flag), archive members are
selected, using the modified names, according to the user-specified
pattern arguments as modified by the \*L-c\*O, \*L-n\*O, and \*L-u\*O flags.
Then, any \*L-s\*O and \*L-i\*O flags modify, in
that order, the names of the selected files. The \*L-v\*O flag
writes the names resulting from these modifications.
.if n .PP
When writing files to an archive file (\*L-w\*O flag), or when copying files,
the files are selected according to the user-specified pathnames
as modified by the \*L-n \*Oand \*L-u\*O flags. Then, any \*L-s\*O
and \*L-i\*O flags modify, in that order, the names resulting from
these modifications.  The \*L-v\*O flag writes the names resulting
from these modifications.
.if n .PP
If both the \*L-u\*O and \*L-n\*O flags are specified, the \*Lpax\*O command
does not consider a file selected unless it is newer
than the file to which it is compared.
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "pax command"
.iX "archive" "extracting, writing and listing"
.iX "files" "archive"
.PP
The \*Lpax\*O command extracts and writes member files and any
associated, extended attributes of archive
files; writes lists of the member files of archives; and copies directory
hierarchies. The \*L-r\*O and \*L-w\*O flags specify the archive
operation performed by the \*Lpax\*O command.
.PP
The \*Vpattern\*O argument
specifies a pattern that matches one or more
paths of archive members. A \*L\e\*O (backslash) character is not recognized
in the \*Vpattern\*O argument and it prevents the subsequent character
from having any special meaning. If no \*Vpattern\*O argument
is specified, all members are selected in the archive.
.PP
If a \*Vpattern\*O argument is specified, but no archive members
are found that match the pattern specified, the \*Lpax\*O command
detects the error, exits with a nonzero exit status, and
writes a diagnostic message.
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.PP
The \*Lpax\*O command can read both \*Ltar\*O and \*Lcpio\*O
archives.  In the case of \*Lcpio\*O, this means that \*Lpax\*O
can read ASCII archives (which are created with \*Lcpio -c\*O)
and binary archives (which are created without the \*L-c\*O flag).
The supported archive formats are automatically detected on input.
.PP
The \*Lpax\*O command can also write archives that \*Ltar\*O and
\*Lcpio\*O can read; by default, \*Lpax\*O writes archives in the
\*Lustar\*O extended \*Ltar\*O interchange format.  The \*Lpax\*O command
also
writes ASCII \*Lcpio\*O archives; use the \*L-x cpio\*O
flag to specify this extended \*Lcpio\*O output format.
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SS Listing Member Files of Archived Files
.if n .PP
When neither the \*L-r\*O nor the \*L-w\*O flags are specified,
the \*Lpax\*O command writes the names of the members of the archive
file read from the standard input, with pathnames matching the specified
patterns, to the standard output. If a named file is a directory,
the file hierarchy contained in the directory is also written.
You can specify the \*Lpax\*O
command without the \*L-r\*O or \*L-w\*O flags with the
\*L-c\*O, \*L-d\*O, \*L-f\*O, \*L-n\*O, \*L-s\*O,
and \*L-v\*O flags, and with the \*Vpattern\*O argument.
.if n .PP
If neither the \*L-r\*O or \*L-w\*O flags are included, \*Lpax\*O
lists the contents of the specified archive, one file per line.
The \*Lpax\*O command lists hard link pathnames as follows:
.oS
\*Vpathname\*C == \*Vlinkname\*O
.oE
The \*Lpax\*O command lists symbolic link pathnames as follows:
.oS
\*Vpathname\*C -> \*Vlinkname\*O
.oE
.if n .PP
In both of the preceding cases, \*Vpathname\*O is the name of the
file that is being extracted, and \*Vlinkname\*O is the name
of a file that appeared earlier in the archive.
.if n .PP
If the \*L-v\*O flag is specified, the listing of hard link pathnames
is output in the \*Lls -l\*O command format.
.SS "Extracting Archive Files
.if n .PP
When the \*L-r\*O flag is specified, but the \*L-w\*O flag
is not, the \*Lpax\*O command extracts the members of an archive
file and any extended attributes read from the standard input, and with pathnames matching the
\*Vpattern\*O argument if one is specified. If an extracted file is a
directory, the file hierarchy
contained in the directory is also extracted. The
extracted files are created relative to the current file hierarchy.
The \*L-r\*O flag can be specified with the \*L-c\*O, \*L-d\*O, \*L-f\*O,
\*L-n\*O, \*L-s\*O, and \*L-v\*O flags, and a \*Vpattern\*O argument.
.if n .PP
The access and modification times of the extracted files are the
same as the archived files. The access permissions of the extracted
files remain as archived unless affected by the user's default file
creation mode. The \*LS_ISUID\*O and \*LS_ISGID\*O bits of the
extracted files are cleared.
.if n .PP
If intermediate directories are necessary to extract an archive member, the
\*Lpax\*O command creates the directories with access permissions set as the
bitwise inclusive OR of the values of the \*LS_IRWXU\*O, \*LS_IRWXG\*O, and
\*LS_IRWXO\*O options.
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.if n .PP
If the selected archive format supports the specification of linked files
(both the \*Ltar\*O and \*Lcpio\*O formats do),
it is an error if these files cannot be linked when the archive
is extracted.  The \*Lpax\*O command informs you of the error and continues processing.
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SS "Writing Archive Files
.if n .PP
When the \*L-w\*O flag is specified and the \*L-r\*O flag is not, the \*Lpax\*O
command writes the contents of the files and any extended attributes specified by the \*Vfile\*O arguments
to the standard output in an archive format. If no \*Vfile\*O arguments are
specified, a list of files to copy, one per line, is read from the standard
input. When the \*Vfile\*O argument specifies a directory, all of the files
and any extended attributes 
contained in the directory are written. The \*L-w \*Oflag can be specified with
the \*L-b\*O, \*L-d\*O, \*L-f\*O, \*L-i\*O, \*L-s\*O, \*L-t\*O, \*L-u\*O,
\*L-v\*O, \*L-x\*O, and \*L-X\*O flags and with \*Vfile\*O arguments.
.if n .PP
If \*L-w\*O is specified, but no files are specified, standard input is used.
If neither \*L-f\*O or \*L-w\*O are specified, standard
input must be an archive file.
.SS "Copying Files
.if n .PP
When both the \*L-r\*O and \*L-w\*O flags are specified, the \*Lpax\*O command
copies the files and any extended attributes specified by the \*Vfile\*O arguments to the destination
directory specified by the \*Vdirectory\*O argument. If no file arguments are
specified, a list of files to copy, one per line, is read from the standard
input. If a specified file is a directory, the file hierarchy contained in the
directory is also copied. The \*L-r\*O and \*L-w\*O flags can be specified
with the \*L-d\*O, \*L-i\*O, \*L-k\*O, \*L-l\*O, \*L-p\*O, \*L-n\*O, \*L-s\*O,
\*L-t\*O, \*L-u\*O, \*L-v\*O, and \*L-X\*O flags and with the \*Vfile\*O
arguments. A \*Vdirectory\*O argument must be specified.
.if n .PP
Copied files are the same as if they were written to an archive
file and subsequently extracted, except that there may be hard links
between the original and the copied files.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To copy the contents of the current directory to the tape drive, enter:
.iS
pax -w -f /dev/rmt0 .
.iE
.LI
To copy the \*Lolddir\*O directory hierarchy to \*Lnewdir\*O, enter:
.iS
mkdir newdir
pax -rw olddir newdir
.iE
.LI
To read the archive \*La.pax\*O, with all files rooted in the
directory \*L/usr\*O in the archive extracted relative to the
current directory, enter:
.iS
pax -r -s ',^//*usr//*,,' -f a.pax
.iE
.LE
.IP
All of the preceding examples create archives in \*Ltar\*O format.
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.IP
The following pairs of commands demonstrate conversions from
\*Lcpio\*O and \*Ltar\*O to \*Lpax\*O.  In all cases, the examples
show comparable command-line usage rather than identical output
formats.  The \*L-x\*O flag can be specified to the \*Lpax\*O commands
shown here, producing archives to select specific output formats:
.iS
ls * | cpio -ocv
pax -wdv *

find /mydir -type f -print | cpio -oc
find /mydir -type f -print | pax -w

cpio -icdum < archive
pax -r < archive

(cd /fromdir;find . -print) | cpio -pdlum /todir
pax -rwl /fromdir /todir

tar cf archive *
pax -w -f archive *

tar xfv - < archive
pax -rv < archive

(cd /fromdir; tar cf - . ) | (cd /todir; tar xf -)
pax -rw /fromdir /todir
.iE
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH NOTES
.PP
When you use the \*L-i\*O flag (interactively renames files)
on files to which there are hard links,
\*Lpax\*O does \*Enot\*O create hard links to the renamed files.
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
The \*Lpax\*O command returns a value of 0 (zero) if all files
were successfully processed; otherwise, \*Lpax\*O returns
a value greater than 0 (zero).
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Led\*O(1).
.PP
File Formats:  \*Ltar\*O(4).
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
