.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pfstat.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/05/26 18:31:14 $
.\"
.TH pfstat 1
.\".UC 4
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lpfstat\*O \- Print packet filter status information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/bin/pfstat\*O [ \*Voptions\*O ] [ \*Vsystem\*O [ \*Vcorefile\*O ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "pfstat command"
.iX "packet filter" "pfstat command"
The \*Lpfstat\*O command interprets the data structures of the packet filter
driver \*Lpacketfilter\*O(7).  If \*Vsystem\*O is given,
the required namelist is taken from there; otherwise, it is taken from
\*L/vmunix\*O.  If \*Vcorefile\*O
is given, the data structures are sought there, otherwise in \*L/dev/kmem\*O.
(If \*Vcorefile\*O is a core dump, the \*L\-k\*O option must be given.)
.SH FLAGS
.PP
If no options are given, then all are assumed (except for the verbose option,
\*L\-v\*O).
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lc\*O"
Counts.  Displays various counts (per ethernet unit) including
number of packets sent and received, the number of packets dropped
due to full input queues, the number of packets not wanted by any
filter, and the number of packets missed by the interface.
.LI "\*Ld\*O"
Descriptors.  Displays OpenDescriptors for each minor device.
.LI "f\*O"
Filters.  Displays packet filters for each minor device.
.LI "\*Lk\*O"
Specifies the corefile is a crash dump, not a running system's
\*L/dev/kmem\*O.
.LI "\*Lp\*O"
Parameters.  Displays device parameters including device type,
header and address lengths, maximum transmission units (MTU),
and interface and broadcast addresses.
.LI "\*Lq\*O"
QueueElements.  Displays the QueueElements.
.LI "\*Ls\*O"
Scavenger.  Displays the FreeQueue and Scavenger statistics.
.LI "\*Lv\*O"
Verbose.  Displays information for minor devices not actually in use
and complete queue information, only if this flag is given.
.LI "\*L<digit>\*O"
Limits output to information about specified units. If no digits
are given, all units are displayed. Valid digits are 0 to 7.
.LE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Some of the output is a bit cramped to fit on an 80-character line.
It should be possible to get a less verbose but more readable listing.
.PP
Since things happen quickly, it is not likely that \*Lpfstat\*O
will provide a consistent view of a running system.
It is mostly useful for analyzing static or slowly-varying problems,
not transient ones.
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
.PP
This section describes the information displayed in the output
of the \*Lpfstat\*O command under the headings \*LAllDescriptors\*O,
\*LFilters\*O, and \*LQueueElts\*O.
.PP
.SS "\*LAllDescriptors\*O"
.VL 4m
.LI "#"
Minor device number for open descriptor.
.LI "LOC"
Descriptor location.
.LI "LINK-QUEUE"
Forward link to other descriptors.
.LI "STATE"
Blank, or one of the following:
.VL 4m
.LI "wait"
Waiting for input, indefinite wait
.LI "timed"
Waiting for input, timed wait
.LI "tout"
Has timed out
.LE
.LI "WAIT-QUEUE"
Addresses of ``Queue Elements'' for waiting packets.
.LI "NQ'D"
Number of packets queued for input/maximum for this queue.
.LI "TOUT"
Timeout duration in clock ticks (if the \*L\-v\*O [Verbose] option is not
given, then times may be expressed as minutes [with a trailing ``m''], hours
[with a trailing ``h''], or simply ``long'', to keep the columns lined up.)
.LI "MODE"
Shows which mode bits are set for the minor device; each bit is encoded
as a single character:
.VL 4m
.LI "H"
ENHOLDSIG
.LI "B"
ENBATCH
.LI "T"
ENTSTAMP
.LI "P"
ENPROMISC
.LI "N"
ENNONEXCL
.LI "C"
ENCOPYALL
.LI "b"
ENBPFHDR
.LI "?"
An unknown mode bit is set.
.LE
.LI "SIG"
Signal number to be delivered when a packet arrives.
.LI "PROC"
Process to be signaled when a packet arrives.
.LI "PID"
Process id which enabled the signal.
.LE
.SS \*LFilters\*O
.VL 4m
.LI "#"
Minor device number of filter.
.LI "COUNT"
Count of packets accepted by this filter.
.LI "DROPS"
Count of ``recent'' drops for this filter.
.LI "PRI"
Priority of filter. (Not applicable to BPF-style filters.)
.LI "LEN"
Length of filter (in shortwords).
.LI "FILTER"
See \*Lpacketfilter\*O(7)
for interpretation of packet filters. See \*Lbpf\*O(7) for
interpretation of BPF-style filters.
.LE
.SS \*LQueueElts\*O
.VL 4m
.LI "LOC"
Location of queue element.
.LI "LINK-QUEUE"
Forward and backward links.
.LI "COUNT"
Packet size.
.LI "REF"
Reference count for queue element.
.LI "FLAGS"
Per-packet flag bits set; each bit is encoded
as a single character:
.VL 4m
.LI "P"
ENSF_PROMISC
.LI "B"
ENSF_BROADCAST
.LI "M"
ENSF_MULTICAST
.LI "T"
ENSF_TRAILER
.LI "?"
An unknown flag bit is set.
.LE
.LI "DROP"
Count of packets dropped between the time previous packet was queued
and the time this packet was queued.
.LI "TIME"
Approximate time this packet was received.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L/vmunix\*O"
Namelist
.LI "\*L/dev/kmem\*O"
Default source of tables
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lnetstat\*O(1), \*Lpfconfig\*O(8)
.PP
Files: \*Lbpf\*O(7), \*Lpacketfilter\*O(7)
.\" K. Thompson
.\" .I UNIX Implementation
.\".SH Author
.\"Jeffrey Mogul at Stanford, after work done by Mike Accetta at CMU, based
.\"on
.\".IR pstat (8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
