.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pg.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/15 14:51:50 $
.\"
.\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH pg 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lpg\*O - Formats files for a terminal display
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*Lpg\*O
\*O[\*L\(hycefns\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyp\*O\ \*Vstring\*O]
\*O[\*L+\*Vline_number\*O\ |\ \*L+/\*Vpattern\*L/]
\*O[\*L\(hy\*Vnumber\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O\ \&...]
.in -.5i
.sE
.PP
The \*Lpg\*O command reads the specified file or files
(or standard input by default) and writes them to standard output
one screen at a time.  At the end of each screen you can display the next
screen or enter various subcommands, including those that let you back up
to review something that has already passed.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.iX "pg command"
.iX "formatting" "files for a terminal or tty"
.iX "displaying" "files on a tty or terminal"
.iX "files" "formatting for terminal or tty display"
.iX "tty" "formatting files for display"
.iX "terminal" "formatting files for display"
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Moves the cursor to the home position and clears the screen before
each page.  This flag is ignored if \*Lclear\(ulscreen\*O is not
defined for your terminal type in the \*Lterminfo\*O file.
.LI "\*L-e\*O"
Does not pause at the end of each file.  However, \*Lpg\*O still pauses at the
beginning of each file.
.LI "\*L-f\*O"
Does not split lines.  Normally, \*Lpg\*O splits (wraps) lines longer
than the screen width.
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Stops processing when a \*Lpg\*O command letter is entered.
Normally, commands must end with a newline character.
.LI "\*L-p\*O \*Vstring\*O"
Uses \*Vstring\*O as the prompt.  If the \*Vstring\*O
contains \*L%d\*O, \*L%d\*O is replaced by the current
page number in the prompt.  The default prompt is \*L:\*O (colon).
If \*Vstring\*O contains spaces, you must quote it.  In addition,
if \*Vstring\*O contains either the \*L<\*O or \*L>\*O characters,
you must quote it; otherwise, these characters are treated as
shell redirection commands.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Highlights all messages and prompts.
.LI "\*L\(pl\*Vline_number\*O"
Starts at \*Vline_number\*O.
.LI "\*L-\*Vnumber\*O"
Specifies the number of lines in the window.
.LI "\*L\(pl/\*Vpattern\*O/"
Starts at the first line that contains \*Vpattern\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
If you specify \*Vfile\*O as a \*L-\*O (dash) or run \*Lpg\*O without
arguments, \*Lpg\*O reads standard input.
To determine terminal attributes, \*Lpg\*O
looks up the terminal type specified by the \*LTERM\*O environment variable
in the \*Lterminfo\*O database.  The default type is \*Ldumb\*O.
.PP
At any time during the operation of \*Lpg\*O, you can enter the
Quit (usually \*L<Ctrl-\e>\*O ) or Interrupt (usually \*L<Ctrl-c>\*O)
key sequences.  If \*Lpg\*O is sending output, it interrupts output and
displays the prompt, and you can then enter one of the subcommands in
the normal manner.  If the prompt is already displayed, the Quit and
Interrupt sequences terminate \*Lpg\*O.  (Note that on a high-speed display it
may be difficult to enter a Quit or Interrupt between prompts, because the
interval between them is so short.)
.PP
Note that some output is lost when you use the Quit or
Interrupt sequences during output because any characters waiting in the output
queue are purged when the \*LQUIT\*O or \*LINTERRUPT\*O signal is received.
When you use \*Lpg\*O in a pipe, an Interrupt is likely to end the
other commands in the pipe.
.PP
If standard output is not a terminal, \*Lpg\*O acts like the
\*Lcat\*O command, writing the input to standard output without any
formatting or special treatment, except that a header is displayed
before each file.
.PP
If termianal tabs are not set for every eight positions, unpredictable
results can occur.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.PP
When \*Lpg\*O pauses and displays its prompt, you can enter a
subcommand.  Some of these subcommands change the display to a
particular place in the file, some search for specific patterns in the
text, and others change the environment in which \*Lpg\*O works.
.SS Location Subcommands
.IP
The following commands display a selected place in the file:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vnumber\*O"
Displays page number \*Vnumber\*O.
.LI "\*L\(pl\*Vnumber\*O"
Displays the page \*Vnumber\*O pages after the current page.
.LI "\*L\(hy\*Vnumber\*O"
Displays the page \*Vnumber\*O pages before the current page.
.LI "\*Ll\*O"
Scrolls the display one line forward.
.LI "\*Vnumber\*Vl\*O"
Displays a screen with the specified line \*Vnumber\*O at the
top.
.LI "\*L\(pl\*Vnumber\*Ll\*O"
Scrolls the display \*Vnumber\*O lines forward.
.LI "\*L\(hy\*Vnumber\*Ll\*O"
Scrolls the display \*Vnumber\*O lines backward.
.LI "\*Ld\*O"
Scrolls half a screen forward.  Pressing \*L<Ctrl-d>\*O (and \*L<Return>\*O if
you have not specified \*L-n\*O) has the same effect.
.LI "\*L-d\*O"
Scrolls half a screen backward.  Pressing \*L-\*O and then \*L<Ctrl-d>\*O
(and \*L<Return>\*O if you have not specified \*L-n\*O) has the same effect.
.LI "\*L\(pl\*Vnumber\*Lf\*O"
Skips \*Vnumber\*O screens forward.
.LI "\*L\(hy\*Vnumber\*Lf\*O"
Skips \*Vnumber\*O screens backward.
.LI "\*L<Ctrl-l>\*O"
Displays the current page again.  A single \*L\&.\*O (dot) also does this.
.LI "\*L$\*O"
Displays the last page in the file.  Do not use this when
the input is from a pipeline.
.LE
.SS Search Subcommands
The following commands search for patterns in the text.  You can
use the regular expressions described in \*Lgrep\*O.  They must always end
with a newline character, even if the \*L-n\*O flag is used.
In an expression such as \*L[a-z]\*O, the dash means
\*Vthrough\*O according to the current collating sequence.
The collating sequence is determined by the value of the \*LLC_COLLATE\*O
environment variable.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L[\*Vnumber\*O]/\*Vpattern\*O/"
Searches for the \*Vnumber\*O'th occurrence of \*Vpattern\*O.
The search begins immediately after the current page and continues to
the end of the current file, without wrapping around.  The default for
\*Vnumber\*O is 1.
.LI "\*Vnumber\*O?\*Vpattern\*O?"
or
.LI "\*Vnumber\*O^\*Vpattern\*O^"
Searches backward for the \*Vnumber\*O'th occurrence of
\*Vpattern\*O.  The search begins immediately before the current
page and continues to the beginning of the current file, without wraparound.
The \*L^\*O (circumflex) is useful for the
Adds 100 terminal, which cannot handle a \*L?\*O (question
mark).  The default for \*Vnumber\*O is 1.
.LE
.PP
After searching, \*Lpg\*O normally displays the line found at
the top of the screen.  You can change this by adding \*Lm\*O or
\*Lb\*O to the search command to leave the line found in the middle
or at the bottom of the window with all succeeding subcommands.  Use the
suffix \*Lt\*O to return to displaying the line with the pattern to
the top of the screen.
.SS Environment Subcommands
.IP
You can change the \*Lpg\*O environment with the following
subcommands:
.VL 4m
.LI "[\*Vnumber\*O]\*Ln\*O"
Begins examining the \*Vnumber\*O'th next file in the command line.
The default \*Vnumber\*O is 1.
.LI "[\*Vnumber\*O]\*Lp\*O"
Begins examining the \*Vnumber\*O'th previous file on the command
line.  The default \*Vnumber\*O is 1.
.LI "[\*Vnumber\*O]\*Lw\*O"
Sets the window size to \*Vnumber\*O.  If \*Vnumber\*O is not present, displays
another window of text.
.LI "[\*Vnumber\*O]\*Lz\*O"
Same as \*Lw\*O.
.LI "\*Ls \*Vfile\*O"
Saves the input in \*Vfile\*O.  Only the current file being
examined is saved.  This command must always end with a newline
character, even if you specify the \*L-n\*O flag.
.LI "\*Lh\*O"
Displays an abbreviated summary of available subcommands.
.LI "\*Lq or Q\*O"
Quits \*Lpg\*O.
.LI "\*L!\*Vcommand\*O"
Sends the specified command to the shell named in the
\*LSHELL\*O environment variable.  If this is not available, the
default shell is used.  This command must always end with a newline
character, even if the \*L-n\*O flag is used.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To look at the contents of file \*Lfile1\*O one page at a time, enter:
.iS
pg file1
\*O\c
.iE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 14m
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/terminfo/?/*\*O"
Terminal capability database.
.LI "\*L/tmp/pg*\*O"
Temporary file used when input is from a pipe.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcat\*O(1), \*Lgrep\*O(1)/\*Legrep\*O(1)/\*Lfgrep\*O(1),
\*Lmore\*O(1)/\*Lpage\*O(1).
.PP
Files:  \*Llocale\*O(4), \*Lterminfo\*O(4).
.PP
.EQ
delim off
.EN
