.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pick.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/07/22 12:22:10 $
.\" 
.TH pick 1
.SH NAME
.PP
pick \- select messages by content
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B pick
[
\*V+folder\*O
] [
\*Vmsgs\*O
] [
\*Voptions\*O
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "pick command"
.iX "messages" "select by content"
The \*Lpick\*O command lets you search messages in a folder
on a diverse range of search criteria.
.PP
You can search the mail headers or the text
of some or all of the messages within a folder
for the specified criteria.
You can use pattern matching or date constraint operations.
You can use the messages that you find
with other MH commands,
or you can place them in a sequence.
.PP
By default, \*Lpick\*O searches all the messages in the current folder.
You can specify a folder other than the current folder using the
\*V+foldername\*O
option.
Also, if you do not want to search all messages
within the folder, you can specify more than one message
or a range of messages using the message numbers.
.PP
You can search on the contents of the most common
header fields by giving the name of the field as an option,
preceded by a dash (\*L-\*O).
The \*Lpick\*O command allows you to specify
the following header fields in this way:
\*LTo:\*O,
\*Lcc:\*O,
\*LDate:\*O,
\*LFrom:\*O,
and
\*LSubject:\*O.
You can also search the contents of any other header field
by preceding the name of the field with two dashes.
.PP
The \*Lpick\*O also allows you to introduce time constraints.
You can search for messages sent before, after,
or between specified dates.
.\"
.SS Combining pick with Other Commands
You can combine the output of \*Lpick\*O directly with any MH command.
by using a technique called back-quoting.
Enclose the \*Lpick\*O command and its associated arguments and options
in back quotes (\*L`\*O).
The system performs back-quoted commands first.
In the following example, the \*Lpick\*O command is performed first,
and the output is then listed by the \*Lscan\*O command:
.oS
% \f(CBscan `pick \-from jones`\f(CW
   3  16/01 jones              Meeting 10.00 tomorrow<<There wi
  17  22/01 jones              Minutes of meeting 16/1<<Any com
  21  01/02 jones              Next week's meeting canceled<<T
.oE
.PP
If \*Lpick\*O finds that there is no mail from Jones,
it will output the illegal character \*L0\*O.
This will cause the \*Lscan\*O command to fail gracefully.
.PP
You can use back-quoting to combine \*Lpick\*O with any MH command.
For more information on back-quoting,
see the reference page for your shell;
for example, \*Lcsh\*O(1) or \*Lsh\*O(1).
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP "\-after \f2date\f3" 10
Searches for messages sent after the specified date.
This command can be used with pattern-matching options,
and also in conjunction with the
.B \-before
option to specify a date range.
The date must be enclosed in double quotes (").
This option accepts RFC 822-style dates.
It also accepts days of the week, and the special dates
\*Ltoday\*O and \*Lyesterday\*O.
Days of the week always refer to days in the past;
for example, \*Lsaturday\*O refers to last Saturday,
not to next Saturday.
.IP
By default, \*Lpick\*O consults the \*LDate:\*O field of the message.
If you wish to use the date in another header field,
you can specify this with the
.B \-datefield
option.
.\"
.IP "\-before \f2date\f3" 10
Searches for messages sent before the specified date.
This command can be used with pattern-matching options,
and also in conjunction with the
.B \-after
option to specify a date range.
The date must be enclosed in double quotes (").
This option accepts RFC 822-style dates.
It also accepts days of the week, and the special dates
\*Ltoday\*O, \*Ltomorrow\*O, and \*Lyesterday\*O.
Days of the week always refer to days in the past;
for example, \*Lsaturday\*O refers to last Saturday,
not to next Saturday.
.IP
By default, \*Lpick\*O consults the \*LDate:\*O field of the message.
If you wish to use the date in another header field,
you can specify this with the
.B \-datefield
option.
.\"
.IP "\-cc \f2pattern\f3" 10
Searches for the specified pattern in the
\*Lcc:\*O field of messages.
This option is case-insensitive:
lower- and upper-case letters are treated as identical.
So a search for the pattern \*Lphillips\*O
would also find \*LPhillips\*O and \*LPHILLIPS\*O.
If the pattern contains spaces, you must enclose it
in double quotes (").
.\"
.IP "\-date \f2pattern\f3" 10
Searches for messages sent on a specified date.
This option consults the \*LDate:\*O field
of messages.
You must enclose the date that you give in double quotes (")
if it contains spaces.
.\"
.IP "\-datefield \f2field\f3"  10
Specifies the header field to be used by the
.B \-before
and
.B \-after
options.
By default, these options consult the
\*LDate:\*O field of the message header.
You can specify a different header field by naming it
with this option.
The
.B \-datefield
option must precede the
.B \-before
or
.B \-after
options it is used with.
.\"
.IP "\-from \f2pattern\f3" 10
Searches for the specified pattern in the
\*LFrom:\*O field of messages.
This option is case-insensitive:
lower- and upper-case letters are treated as identical.
So a search for the pattern \*Lphillips\*O
would also find \*LPhillips\*O and \*LPHILLIPS\*O.
If the pattern contains spaces, you must enclose it
in double quotes (").
.\"
.IP "\-help" 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.IP "\-list" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-nolist" 10
.PD
The
.B \-list
option lists the numbers of the messages that have met
the search criteria.
This is the usual default behavior of \*Lpick\*O.  If you use the
.B \-nolist
option, \*Lpick\*O indicates how many messages met the search criteria.
.IP
If you use the
.B \-sequence
option to add the messages found to a sequence,
the default behavior is to use the
.B \-nolist
option.
.\"
.IP "\-public" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-nopublic" 10
.PD
Sets the read permissions of sequences.
Normally, when you create a sequence with the
.B \-sequence
option, the sequence will not be accessible
to other MH users.
The
.B \-public
option makes the sequence accessible to other MH users.
You can use the
.B \-nopublic
option to ensure that the sequence that you create
is only accessible to yourself.
.\"
.IP "\-search \f2pattern\f3" 10
Searches the entire message for the specified string.
Each line of the message is searched for the pattern
that you specify.
The
.B \-search
option is a modified \*Lgrep\*O(1). Like \*Lgrep\*O, this
option is case-sensitive;
it treats upper- and lower-case letters as different.
So a search for the word \*Lstrawberries\*O
would not find a messages which contained the word
\*LSTRAWBERRIES\*O.
If the search pattern contains spaces,
you must enclose it in double quotes (").
.\"
.IP "\-sequence \f2name\f3" 10
Specifies a sequence in which \*Lpick\*O places the messages found.
For more information on sequences, see \*Lmark\*O(1). The
name of the sequence must begin with a letter,
and must consist entirely of alphabetic or numeric characters;
no punctuation is allowed.
.\"
.IP "\-subject \f2pattern\f3" 10
Searches for the specified pattern in the
\*LSubject:\*O field of messages.
This option is case-insensitive:
lower- and upper-case letters are treated as identical.
So a search for the pattern \*Lphillips\*O
would also find \*LPhillips\*O and \*LPHILLIPS\*O.
If the pattern contains spaces, you must enclose it
in double quotes (").
.\"
.IP "\-to \f2pattern\f3" 10
Searches for the specified pattern in the
\*LTo:\*O field of messages.
This option is case-insensitive:
lower- and upper-case letters are treated as identical.
So a search for the pattern \*Lphillips\*O
would also find \*LPhillips\*O and \*LPHILLIPS\*O.
If the pattern contains spaces, you must enclose it
in double quotes (").
.\"
.IP "\-zero" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-nozero" 10
.PD
Specifies whether to zero existing sequences
before adding new messages.
Normally, \*Lpick\*O removes all existing messages from a sequence before
adding messages to it.
If you specify the
.B \-nozero
option, \*Lpick\*O will add the messages it finds to the existing contents
of the sequence.
This option only works with the
.B \-sequence
option.
.\"
.IP "\-\|\-\f2component pattern\f3" 10
Searches a specified header field.
If you wish to search for a pattern in a particular header field,
you can specify the field by placing two dashes (\*L-\*O)
before the name of the field.
This option is case-insensitive:
lower- and upper-case letters are treated as identical.
So a search for the pattern \*Lphillips\*O
would also find \*LPhillips\*O and \*LPHILLIPS\*O.
If the pattern contains spaces, you must enclose it
in double quotes (").
.IP
The \*Lpick\*O command recognizes the following common header fields:
\*LTo:\*O,
\*Lcc:\*O,
\*LDate:\*O,
\*LFrom:\*O,
and
\*LSubject:\*O.
You can search these fields by preceding the name
with one dash only.
.PP
In addition to the above options, you can direct \*Lpick\*O to
start its search a specified number of days ago.
To do this, precede the number of days with a dash (\*L-\*O).
For example, the following command searches all messages
sent in the last ten days:
.oS
% \f(CBpick \-subject strawberries \-10\f(CW
1
6
.oE
.\"
.\"
.PP
The \*Lpick\*O command also supports complex boolean operations.
The
.BR \-not ,
.B \-or
and
.B \-and
options allow you to modify the behavior
of pattern-matching options.
In the following command, the
.B \-not
option means that \*Lpick\*O searches for messages that were not from fred:
.oS
% \f(CBpick -not -from fred\f(CW
.oE
.PP
In the next example, the
.B \-or
option finds all messages from fred or from david.
If the
.B \-or
option is not used, \*Lpick\*O searches for messages with
both the string \*Lfred\*O
and the string \*Ldavid\*O in the \*LFrom:\*O field.
.oS
% \f(CBpick -from fred -or -from david\f(CW
.oE
.PP
The pattern-matching options normally take precedence over
.BR \-not ,
which in turn takes precedence over
.BR \-and ,
which in turn takes precedence over
.BR \-or .
.PP
You can override the default precedence with the
.B \-lbrace
and
.B \-rbrace
options.
These act just like opening and closing parentheses
in logical expressions.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The sequence name, punctuation and message list must not exceed 1024
characters.
In practice, this gives a reasonable limit of approximately
200 non-consecutive messages in a sequence.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The first example finds all the mail in the current folder
that was sent by Christine:
.oS
% \f(CBpick \-from christine\f(CW
1
3
8
.oE
.PP
In the next example, \*Lpick\*O searches messages 10-20 in
the \*L+sent\*O folder for messages that were sent to Kafka:
.oS
% \f(CBpick +sent 10-20 \-to Kafka\f(CW
pick: no messages match specification
.oE
.PP
The next example finds all messages from Jack,
and places them in a sequence called \*Ltesting\*O:
.oS
% \f(CBpick \-from Jack \-sequence testing\f(CW
3 hits
.oE
.PP
The final example finds all messages sent
to Holloway since 10th June:
.oS
% \f(CBpick \-to holloway \-after "10 Jun 90"\f(CW
19
.oE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine your Mail directory
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L$HOME/.mh_profile\*O
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lcsh\*O(1), \*Led\*O(1), \*Lgrep\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1), \*Linc\*O(1),
\*Lmark\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
