.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pixie.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/29 15:04:22 $
.\"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.  All Rights |
.\" | Reserved.                                         |
.\" -----------------------------------------------------
.\" $Header: /usr/doc/osf1doc/refpages/rcs/src/./BASE/DEC/man1/pixie.1,v 3.2.2.6 1993/01/29 15:04:22 Jeff_Mandell Exp $
.TH pixie 1
.SH NAME
.PP
pixie \- add profiling code to a program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B pixie
.IR in_prog_name " [ " options " ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "pixie command"
The
.B pixie
utility reads an executable program, partitions it into basic blocks, and
writes an equivalent program containing additional code that
counts the execution of each basic block. (A basic block is a region of
the program that can be entered only at the beginning and exited only at
the end).
The
.B pixie
utility also generates a file containing the address of each of the
basic blocks.
.PP
When you run the pixie-generated program, it will (provided it terminates
normally or via a call to \*Lexit\*O(2)) generate
a file containing the basic block counts. The name of the file
is that of the original program with any leading directory names removed
and \*L.Counts\*O appended. Programs that call \*Lfork()\*O
generate multiple basic block counts files, each with the process-id
number appended to the name. The \*Lprof\*O(1) and \*Lpixstats\*O(1)
utilities can analyze these files and produce a listing of profiling data.
.TP
.B \-[no]quiet
[Permits] or suppresses messages summarizing the binary-to-binary
translation process. Default:
.B \-noquiet.
.\" the following options commented out for silver (v1.2) - unsupported
.\" .TP
.\" \*L\-[no]branchcounts\*O
.\" The \*L\-branchcounts\*O flag inserts extra counters to track whether each
.\" branch instruction is taken or not taken.  When this option is used,
.\" \*Vpixstats\*O will automatically print more statistics.
.\" Default: \*L\-nobranchcounts\*O.
.\" .TP
.\" .B \-[no]idtrace
.\" [Disable] or enable tracing of instruction and data memory references.
.\" .B \-idtrace
.\" is equivalent to using both
.\" .B \-itrace
.\" and
.\" .B \-dtrace
.\" together.
.\" Default:
.\" .B \-noidtrace
.\" .TP
.\" .B \-[no]itrace
.\" [Disable] or enable tracing of instruction memory references.
.\" Default:
.\" .B \-noitrace
.\" .TP
.\" .B \-[no]dtrace
.\" [Disable] or enable tracing of data memory references.
.\" For the moment,
.\" .B \-dtrace
.\" requires
.\" .BR \-itrace .
.\" Default:
.\" .B \-nodtrace
.\" .TP
.\" .B \-idtrace_file \*Vnumber\*O
.\" Specify a UNIX file descriptor number for the trace output file.
.\" Default:  19.
.TP
.B \-bbaddrs \*Vname\*O
Specify a name for the file of basic block addresses.  Default is to
remove any leading directory names from the in_prog_name and append
\*L.Addrs\*O.
.TP
\*L\-bbcounts \*Vname\*O
Specifies the full filename of the basic block counts file.
Default: \*Lobjfile.Counts\*O.
.\" .TP
.\" \*L-mips1\*O
.\" Use the \s-1MIPS1\s0 instruction set (R2000, R3000) for output executable.
.\" This is the default.
.\" .TP
.\" \*L-mips2\*O
.\" Use the \s-1MIPS2\s0 instruction set (a superset of \s-1MIPS1\s0) for output
.\" executable.
.TP
\*L\-[no]pids\*O
[Disable] or enable the addition of the process-id number to the
filename of the basic block counts file. This is useful for collecting
information for multiple invocations of the pixie output file.
Default: \*L\-nopids\*O.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The handler function address to the signal system calls is not translated,
and so programs that receive signals will not work pixified.
.PP
Programs that call
\*Vvfork() \*O
will not work pixified because the child process
will modify the parent state required for pixie operation.  Use
\*Vfork()\*O
instead.
.PP
Pixified code is substantially larger than the original code.  Conditional
branches that used to fit in the 21-bit branch displacement field may no
longer fit, generating a pixie error.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lprof\*O(1), \*Lpixstats\*O(1).
.PP
\*EProgrammer's Guide\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
