.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"

.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pr.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/20 19:26:35 $
.\"
.\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH pr 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lpr\*O - Writes a file to standard output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*Lpr\*O
\*O[\*L\(hyadfFmprt\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hye\*O][\*Vcharacter\*O][\*Vnumber\*O]
[\*L\(hyh\ \*Vheader\*L]
\*O[\*L\(hyi\*O][\*Vcharacter\*O][\*Vgap\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyl\ \*Vlines\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyn\*O][\*Vcharacter\*O][\*Vwidth\*O]
|
\*O[\*L\(hyx\*O][\*Vcharacter\*O][\*Vnumber\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyo\ \*Voffset\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hys\*O][\*Vcharacter\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyw\ \*Vwidth\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hy\*Vcolumn\*O]
\*O[\*L+\*Vpage\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O \&...]
.in -.5i
.sE
.PP
The \*Lpr\*O command writes \*Vfile\*O to standard output.
If you do not specify \*Vfile\*O or if \*Vfile\*O is \*L-\*O,
\*Lpr\*O reads standard input.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.iX "pr command"
.iX "paginating files"
.iX "files" "paginating"
.iX "headers" "page"
.iX "page headers"
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Displays multicolumn output across the page.
(This flag is useful only in combination with the \*L-\*Vcolumn\*O flag.
It modifies \*L-\*Vcolumn\*O so that columns are filled across the
page in a round robin order.)
.LI "\*L-d\*O"
Doublespaces the output.
.LI "\*L-e[\*Vcharacter\*O][\*Vnumber\*O]"
Expands tabs to byte
positions \*Vnumber\*O\(pl1, 2*\*Vnumber\*O\(pl1, 3*\*Vnumber\*O\(pl1,
and so on.
The default value of \*Vnumber\*O is 8.  Tab characters in the input
expand to the appropriate number of spaces to line up with the next tab
setting.  If you specify \*Vcharacter\*O (any character other than a
digit) that character becomes the input tab character.  The default
value of \*Vcharacter\*O is the ASCII tab character.
.LI "\*L-f\*O"
Uses a formfeed character to advance to a new page.  (Otherwise,
\*Lpr\*O issues a sequence of newline characters.)  Pauses before
beginning the first page if the standard output is a tty.
.LI "\*L-F\*O"
Uses a formfeed character to advance to a new page.  (Otherwise,
\*Lpr\*O issues a sequence of newline characters.)  Does not pause
before beginning the first page if the standard output if a tty.
.LI "\*L-h \*Vheader\*O"
Displays \*Vheader\*O instead of the filename in the page header.
.LI "\*L-i\*O[\*Vcharacter\*O][\*Vgap\*O]"
Replaces multiple space characters with tab characters wherever
two or more space characters reach positions \*Vgap\*O\(pl1,
2*\*Vgap\*O\(pl1, 3*\*Vgap\*O\(pl1, and so on.
The default value of \*Vgap\*O is 8.  If you specify \*Vcharacter\*O
(any character other than a digit), that character becomes the output
tab character.
(The default value of \*Vcharacter\*O is the ASCII tab character.)
.LI "\*L-l \*Vlines\*O"
Sets the length of a page to \*Vlines\*O lines (the default is
66).  If \*Vlines\*O is not greaterthan the sum of the header and trailer,
\*Lpr\*O suppresses both header and trailer, as if \*L-t\*O were in effect.
.LI "\*L-m\*O"
Combines and writes all files at the same time, with each file in a
separate column.
(This overrides the \*L-\*Vcolumn\*O and \*L-a\*O flags).
.LI "\*L-n\*O[\*Vcharacter\*O][\*Vwidth\*O]"
Provides \*Vwidth\*O-digit line numbering (the default value of
\*Vwidth\*O is 5).  The number occupies the first
\*Vwidth\*O positions of each column of normal
output (or each line of \*L-m\*O output).
If you specify \*Vcharacter\*O (any character, other than a digit),
that character is added to the line number to separate it from
whatever follows.  (The default value of \*Vcharacter\*O is an
ASCII tab character.)
.LI "\*L-o \*Voffset\*O"
Indents each line of output
by \*Voffset\*O byte positions (the default is 0).
This is in addition to output width (see \*L-w\*O).
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Pauses before beginning each page if the output is directed to a
tty.  (\*Lpr\*O sounds the bell at the tty and
waits for you to press \*L<Return>\*O.)
.LI "\*L-r\*O"
Does not display diagnostic messages if the system cannot open files.
.LI "\*L-s\*O[\*Vcharacter\*O]"
Separates columns by the single \*Vcharacter\*O
instead of by the appropriate number of spaces (the default
for \*Vcharacter\*O is an ASCII tab character).
.LI "\*L-t\*O"
Does not display the 5-line identifying header and the 5-line
footer.  Stops after the last line of each file without spacing to the
end of the page.
.LI "\*L-x\*O[\*Vcharacter\*O][\*Vnumber\*O]"
Same as \*L-n\*O.
.LI "\*L-w \*Vwidth\*O"
Sets the width of a line to \*Vwidth\*O byte positions.
If neither \*L-w\*O or \*L-s\*O are specified, the default is 72.  If
only \*L-s\*O is specified, the default is 512.  Single column output
is not truncated.
.LI "\*L-\*Vcolumn\*O"
Produces the specified number of columns (the default value is 1).  The
\*L-e\*O and \*L-i\*O flags are assumed for multicolumn output.
A text column never exceeds the width of the page (see \*L-l\*O).
.LI "\*L\(pl\*Vpage\*O"
Begins the display at the specified page number (the default value is 1).
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A heading that contains the page number, date, time, and the name of
the file separates the output into pages.
.PP
Unless specified, columns are of equal width and separated by at
least one space.  Lines that are too long for the page width are shortened.
If the standard output is a tty, \*Lpr\*O does not display any error
messages until it has ended.
By default, the input is separated into 66-line pages, including the
5-line header and 5-line footer.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To print a file with headings and page numbers on the printer, enter:
.iS
pr  prog.c | lpr
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This inserts a page break in \*Lprog.c\*O, starts each page with a heading,
and sends the output to the \*Lprint\*O command.  The heading
consists of the date the file was
last modified, the filename, and the page number.
.LI
To specify a title, enter:
.iS
pr  -h  "MAIN  PROGRAM"  prog.c  \(br  lpr
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This prints \*Lprog.c\*O with the title
\*LMAIN PROGRAM\*O in place of the filename.  The modification
date and page number are still printed.
.LI
To print a file in multiple columns, enter:
.iS
pr  -3  word.lst  \(br  lpr
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This prints the file \*Lword.lst\*O in three vertical columns.
.LI
To print several files side-by-side on the paper, enter:
.iS
pr -m -h "Members, Visitors" member.lst visitor.lst | lpr
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This prints the files \*Lmember.lst\*O and \*Lvisitor.lst\*O side-by-side with
the title \*LMembers, Visitors\*O.
.LI
To modify a file for later use, enter:
.iS
pr  -t  -e  prog.c  > prog.notab.c
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This replaces tab characters in \*Lprog.c\*O with spaces and
puts the result in \*Lprog.notab.c\*O.
Tab positions are at byte positions 9, 17, 25, 33, and so on.
The \*L-e\*O tells \*Lpr\*O to replace the tab characters;
the \*L-t\*O suppresses the page headings.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcat\*O(1), \*Lmesg\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
