.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: prev.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:37:37 $
.\"
.TH prev 1
.SH NAME
prev \- show the previous message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B prev
[
\*V+folder\*O
] [
.B \-[no]header
] [
.B \-help
] [
.B "\-showproc"
\*Vprogram\*O
] [
.B \-noshowproc
] [
\*Voptions to\*O
\*Lshowproc\*O
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "prev command"
.iX "message" "show previous message"
The \*Lprev\*O command displays the previous message in the current folder.
The previous message is the one before the current message
in the folder.
The message that is shown becomes the current message.
.PP
You can specify a folder other than the current folder by using the
\*V+folder\*O
argument.
If you specify a folder,
that becomes the current folder.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP "\-header" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noheader" 10
.PD
Displays a one-line header before the message.
The header consists of the name of the folder
and the message number.
This is the default behavior.
It can be suppressed with the
.B \-noheader
option.
.\"
.IP "\-help" 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.IP "\-showproc \f2program\f1 [ \f2options\f1 ]\f3" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noshowproc" 10
.PD
Specifies an alternative program to list messages.
The default is to use the program defined by
the \*Lshowproc:\*O entry in the \*L\&.mh_profile\*O file.
As with \*Lshow\*O, you can give options to the \*Lshowproc\*O program
at the command line. These are passed directly
to \*Lshowproc\*O by \*Lprev\*O.
.\"
.PP
The defaults for this command are:
.IP
\*V+folder\*O
defaults to the current folder
.br
.B \-header
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The \*Lprev\*O command is really a link to the \*Lshow\*O program.
As a result, if you make a link to \*Lprev\*O
and that link is not called \*Lprev\*O, your link will
act like \*Lshow\*O instead.
To avoid this,
add a profile-entry for the link to your MH profile
and add the argument \*Lprev\*O to the entry.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The command in the following example displays the previous
message in the folder \*L+copylog\*O:
.oS
$ \f(CBprev +copylog\f(CW
.oE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine your Mail directory
showproc:+Program to show the message
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L$HOME/.mh_profile\*O
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lshow\*O(1), \*Lnext\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
