.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: prompter.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:38:10 $
.\"
.TH prompter 1
.SH NAME
prompter \- prompting editor front-end
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B prompter
[
\*Voptions\*O
]
\*Vfile\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Lprompter\*O editor is a rudimentary editor provided by \*Lcomp\*O,
\*Ldist\*O, \*Lforw\*O, and \*Lrepl\*O.
.iX "prompter editor front-end"
It is automatically called by the above
commands; you do not need to specify it.
.PP
The \*Lprompter\*O editor allows rapid composition of
messages.
It is particularly useful to network and low-speed
(less than 2400 baud) users of MH.
.PP
The \*Lprompter\*O editor is an MH program.
Although is not invoked directly,
it can have its own profile entry with options;
see \*Lmh_profile\*O(4). The \*Lcomp\*O, \*Ldist\*O, \*Lforw\*O, and
\*Lrepl\*O commands invoke \*Lprompter\*O in one of three ways:
when invoked with the
.B "\-editor prompter"
option;
by an entry in the \*L\&.mh_profile\*O file;
or by a command at the \*LWhat now?\*O prompt.
If you do not specify an editor in any of these ways, MH
provides \*Lprompter\*O as the default editor for all of these commands.
.PP
For information on how to use a different editor with MH commands,
see the reference pages for the appropriate commands,
and also \*Lmh_profile\*O(4).
.\"
.\"
.SS Composing a Message with prompter
When you create a message with an MH command,
the mail system provides a message template
for you to fill in.
This template consists of two parts:
the message header, comprising a number of header fields;
and the body of the message, which is the area
where you type the text of your message.
.PP
The \*Lprompter\*O editor displays each header field,
one at a time, for you to fill in.
Fill in the component by typing the text that you want.
Type <RETURN> to move onto the next component.
Once you have moved on from a header field,
you cannot edit what you have entered.
.PP
If you want to leave a header field empty,
simply type <RETURN>.
You can continue a header field over one line
by typing a back-slash (\e) before the <RETURN>.
Continuation lines must start with a blank
(a space or a tab).
.PP
The start of the message body is indicated
by a blank line or a line of dashes.
If you are creating a new message, the cursor
is placed beneath this line to allow you to enter text.
If there is already some body text in the message
(for example, if you are using an existing draft,
or if you are forwarding a message),
you will receive a prompt:
.oS
    --------Enter additional text
.oE
or:
.oS
    --------Enter initial text
.oE
The cursor is placed under the prompt to allow you
to enter text.
.PP
To finish the message, type <CTRL/D>.
You will then receive a prompt asking \*LWhat now?\*O.
See \*Lwhatnow\*O(1) for more details of responses.
.PP
An interrupt, usually <CTRL/C>, during component typing will
abort \*Lprompter\*O and the MH command that invoked it.
An interrupt during message-body typing is equivalent to <CTRL/D>,
for historical reasons.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP "\-prepend" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noprepend" 10
.PD
Adds text to the beginning
of the message body, so that the rest of the body follows.
This is useful for the \*Lforw\*O command.
You can suppress this behavior by using the
.B \-noprepend
option.
.\"
.IP \-rapid 10
.PD 0
.IP \-norapid 10
.PD
Causes the text not to be displayed on your terminal
if the draft already contains text in the message-body.
This is useful for low-speed terminals.
You can suppress this behavior by using the
.B \-norapid
option.
.\"
.IP "\-erase \f2char\fP"
Specifies the line-editing characters, where
\*Vchar\*O
may be a character
or \*L\ennn\*O, where \*Lnnn\*O is the octal value for the character.
.\"
.IP "\-kill \f2char\fP"
Specifies the line-editing characters, where
\*Vchar\*O
may be a character or \*L\ennn\*O,
where \*Lnnn\*O is the octal value for the character.
.PP
The first argument to \*Lprompter\*O which is not an
option is taken as the name of the draft
.IR file ,
and subsequent non-flag arguments are ignored.
.PP
The default settings for \*Lprompter\*O are:
.IP
.B \-prepend
.br
.B \-norapid
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The \*Lprompter\*O editor will not work with files with nulls in them.
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
prompter-next:+To name the editor to be used on exit from prompter
Msg-Protect:+To set protections when creating a new draft
.TE
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L$HOME/.mh\_profile\*O
The user profile.
.TP 10
\*L/tmp/prompter*\*O
Temporary copy of message.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lcapsar\*O(1), \*Lcomp\*O(1), \*Ldist\*O(1), \*Lforw\*O(1),
\*Lrepl\*O(1), \*Lwhatnow\*O(1), \*Lmh_profile\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
