.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: prs.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/20 13:56:32 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH prs 1
.SH NAME
\*Lprs\*O \- Displays key information in a Source Code Control System (SCCS) file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lprs\*O
\*O[\*L-a\*O]
\*O[\*L-d\*Vdataspec\*O]
\*O[\*L-r
\*O[\*L-r\*VSID\*O]]
\*Vfile\*O
.PP
\*Lprs\*O
\*O[\*L-e\*O|
\*O[\*L-l\*O]
\*O[\*L-c\*Vcutoff\*O]
\*O[\*L-d\*Vdataspec\*O]
\*Lfile\&.\&.\&.
.PP
\*Lprs\*O[\*L-e\*O| \*L-l\*O]
\*L-r\*VSID\*O
\*O[\*L-d\*Vdataspec\*O]
\*Vfile\*O \&.\&.\&.
.sE
.\".PP
.\"The \*Lprs\*O command reads files, and writes to
.\"standard output a part or all of an SCCS file.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
Each flag or group of flags applies independently to each named file.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Writes information for the specified deltas, whether or not they
were removed (see the \*Lrmdel\*O command).
If you do not specify the \*L-a\*O flag,
\*Lprs\*O supplies information only
for the specified deltas that were not removed.
.LI "\*L-c \*Vcutoff\*O"
Specifies a cutoff date and time for the \*L-e\*O
and \*L-l\*O flags.  Specify \*Vcutoff\*O  in the following
form:
.iS
\*Vyy\*O[\*Vmm\*O[\*Vdd\*O[\*Vhh\*O[\*Vmm\*O[\*Vss\*O]]]]]
.iE
.IP
All omitted items default to their maximum values, so
specifying \*L-c9002\*O is the same as
specifying \*L-c900229235959\*O.
You can separate the fields with any nonnumeric characters.  For
example, you can specify:
.iS
-c90/2/20,9:22:25
.iE
.IP
or
.iS
-c"90/2/20 9:22:25"
.iE
.IP
or
.iS
"-c90/2/20 9:22:25"
.iE
.LI "\*L-d \*Vdataspec\*L\*O"
Specifies the data items to be displayed. The \*Vdataspec\*O 
string consists of optional text and SCCS file data keywords.  You
must enclose all text and spaces in \*Vdataspec\*O in "" (double quotes).
.LI "\*L-e\*O"
Requests information for all deltas created earlier than
(and including) the delta specified by the \*L-r\*O flag.
.LI "\*L-l\*O"
Requests information for all deltas created later than
(and including) the delta specified by the \*L-r\*O flag.
.LI "\*L-r\*O[\*VSID\*O]"
Specifies the SID of a delta for which \*Lprs\*O
will retrieve information.  If no SID is specified, \*Lprs\*O
retrieves the information for the SID of the highest numbered delta.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "prs command"
.iX "displaying" "SCCS files"
.iX "SCCS" "displaying files"
.iX "files" "SCCS"
.PP
If you specify a directory in place of
\*Vfile\*O, \*Lprs\*O performs the requested actions on all
SCCS files (those with a name that has the \*Ls\&.\*O prefix).
If you specify a \*L-\*O (dash) in place of \*Vfile\*O,
The \*Lprs\*O command reads standard input and interprets each line as the name
of an SCCS file.  The \*Lprs\*O command continues to take input until it reads
an End-of-File character.
.SS Data Keywords
Data keywords specify the parts of an SCCS file to be
retrieved and written to standard output.  All parts of an SCCS
file have an associated data keyword.
There is no limit to the number of times a data keyword can appear in a
string.
.PP
The information that \*Lprs\*O displays consists of user-supplied
text and appropriate values (extracted from the SCCS file)
substituted for the recognized data keywords in the order of appearance
in \*Vstring\*O.
The format of a data keyword value is either simple,where 
the keyword substitution is direct, or multiline,
where the substitution is followed by a carriage-return.
Text is any characters other than recognized data keywords.
Specify a tab character with \*L\et\*O and a carriage-return or newline
character with \*L\en\*O.  Remember to quote the \*L\et\*O and \*L\en\*O
with an extra \*L\e\*O (slash) to prevent the shell from interpreting
the single \*L\e\*O
and just passing a \*Lt\*O or \*Ln\*O to \*Lprs\*O as text.
.PP
The following table lists the keywords associated with information
in the delta table in the SCCS file (see the \*Lsccsfile\*O file
reference page for information about file structure).
.SS Delta Table Keywords
.TS
tab(@) ;
lB lB lB lB
lB l l l.
_
.sp
Keyword@Data Represented@Value@Format
.sp
_
.sp
:R:@Release number@num@Simple
:L:@Level number@num@Simple
:B:@Branch number@num@Simple
:S:@Sequence number@num@Simple
:I:@SCCS ID string (SID)@:R::L::B::S:@Simple
:Dy:@Year delta created@YY@Simple
:Dm:@Month delta created@MM@Simple
:Dd:@Day delta created@DD@Simple
:D:@Date delta created@YY/MM/DD@Simple
:Th:@Hour delta created@HH@Simple
:Tm:@Minute delta created@MM@Simple
:Ts:@Second delta created@SS@Simple
:T:@Time delta created@HH/MM/SS@Simple
:DT:@Delta type~D or R~Simple
:P:@User who created the@login name@Simple
@delta
:DS:@Delta sequence number@num@Simple
:DP:@Previous delta@num@Simple
@sequence number
:Dt:@Delta information@:DT::I::D: :T::P::DS::DP:@Simple
:Dn:@Sequence numbers of@:DS:\&.\&.\&.@Simple
@deltas included
:Dx:@Sequence numbers of@:DS:\&.\&.\&.@Simple
@deltas excluded
:Dg:@Sequence numbers of@:DS:\&.\&.\&.@Simple
@deltas ignored
:DI:@Sequence numbers of@:Dn:/:Dx:/:Dg:@Simple
@deltas included
@excluded, and ignored
:Li:@Lines inserted by Delta@num@Simple
:Ld:@Lines deleted by Delta@num@Simple
:Lu:@Lines unchanged by Delta@num@Simple
:DL:@Delta line statistics@\*L:Li:/:Ld:/:Lu:\*O@Simple
:MR:@MR numbers for delta@text@Multiline
:C:@Comments for delta@text@Multiline
.sp
_
.TE
.PP
The following table lists the keywords associated with the header
flags in the SCCS file.  For more information on header flags, see
the \*Ladmin\*O command.
.SS Header Flag Keywords
.TS
tab(@) ;
lB lB lB lB
lB l l l.
_
.sp
Keyword@Data Represented@Value@Format
.sp
_
.sp
:Y:@Module type@text@Simple
:MF:@MR validation flag set@yes or no@Simple
:MP:@MR validation program name@text@Simple
:KF:@Keyword/error warning flag set@yes or no@Simple
:KV:@Keyword validation string@text@Simple
:BF:@Branch flag set@yes or no@Simple
:J:@Joint edit flag set@yes or no@Simple
:LK:@Locked releases@:R:\&.\&.\&.@Simple
:Q:@User-defined keyword@text@Simple
:M:@Module name@text@Simple
:FB:@Floor boundary@:R:@Simple
:CB:@Ceiling boundary@:R:@Simple
:Ds:@Default SID@:I:@Simple
:ND:@Null delta flag set@yes or no@Simple
:FL:@Header flag list@text@Multiline
.sp
_
.TE
.PP
The following table lists the keywords associated with other parts of
the SCCS file.
.SS Other Keywords
.TS
tab(~) ;
lB lB lB lB
lB l l l.
_
.sp
Keyword~Data Represented~Value~Format
.sp
_
.sp
:UN:~Usernames~text~Multiline
:FD:~Descriptive text~text~Multiline
:BD:~Body of text~text~Multiline
:GB:~Text in a g-file~text~Multiline
:W:~\*Lwhat\*O string~:Z::M:  <Tab>  :I:~Simple
:A:~\*Lwhat\*O string~:Z::Y::M::I::Z:~Simple
:Z:~\*Lwhat\*O string delimiter~@(#)~Simple
:F:~SCCS filename~text~Simple
:PN:~SCCS file pathname~text~Simple
.sp
_
.TE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To display information on all deltas generated for SCCS filename
\*Ls.test.c\*O (including all deltas removed using \*Lrmdel\*O),
enter:
.iS
prs -a s.test.c
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To display username, the number of lines inserted by
\*Ldelta\*O, and the number of lines deleted by \*Ldelta\*O for SID
\*L1.2\*O of \*Ls.test.c\*O, enter:
.iS
prs -r1.2 -d":P::Li::Ld:" s.test.c
\*O\c
.iE
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/tmp/pr?????\*O"
Temporary files.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Ladmin\*O(1), \*Lcdc\*O(1), \*Lcomb\*O(1), \*Ldelta\*O(1),
\*Lget\*O(1), \*Lrmdel\*O(1), \*Lsact\*O(1), \*Lsccsdiff\*O(1),
\*Lsccshelp\*O(1), \*Lunget\*O(1), \*Lval\*O(1), \*Lwhat\*O(1).
.PP
Files:  \*Lsccsfile\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
