.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ps.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.9.8 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/03 20:33:56 $
.\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
...\"build rmifdef
...\"build rmifdef
...\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
...\" All rights reserved.
...\"
...\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
...\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
...\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
...\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
...\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
...\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
...\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
...\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
...\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
...\" specific prior written permission.
...\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
...\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
...\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
...\"
...\" @(#)ps.1        6.7 (Berkeley) 6/26/90
...\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ps.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.9.8 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/03 20:33:56 $
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.\"build rmifdef
.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.\" @(#)ps.1        6.7 (Berkeley) 6/26/90
.\"
.TH ps 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lps\*O \- Displays current process status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*Lps\*O
\*O[\*L\-aAdejflm\*O]
\*O[\*L\-oO\*O
\*Vspecifier\*O][\*L=\*Vheader\*O]\*L,\*O\&...
\*O[\*L\-g\*O
\*Vglist\*O]
\*O[\*L\-p\*O
\*Vplist\*O]
\*O[\*L\-s\*O
\*Vslist\*O]
\*O[\*L\-t\*O
\*Vtlist\*O]
.nL
\*O[\*L\-u\*O
\*Vulist\*O]
\*O[\*V-U ulist\*O] [\*V-n nlist\*O]
.in -.5i
.SS BSD Compatible Syntax
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Removed k from the list of flags (aAeghkjl... --> aAeghjl...) per QAR 6837.
\*Lps\*O
\*O[\*LaAeghjlLmsSTuvwx\*O]
\*O[\*LoO\*O
\*Vspecifier\*O][\*L=\*Vheader\*O]\*L,\*O\&...
\*O[\*Lt\*O
\*Vtty\*O]
\*O[\*Vprocess_number\*O]
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.sE
.PP
The \*Lps\*O command displays the current process status.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ps command"
.iX "displaying" "process status"
.iX "processes" "status" "displaying"
.iX "status" "process" "displaying"
While \*Lps\*O is a fairly accurate snapshot of the system,
\*Lps\*O cannot begin and finish a snapshot as fast as
some processes change state.  At times there may be
minor discrepancies.
.PP
Output formats for each process include the process ID (\*Lpid\*O),
control terminal of the process (\*Ltname\*O), CPU time used by the process
(\*Lcputime\*O) (this includes both user and system time), the state
of the process (\*Lstate\*O), and an indication of the command that
is running (\*Lcommand\*O). The abbreviation tty indicates a terminal.
.PP
The state is given by a sequence of letters, for example, \*LRWN\*O.
The first letter indicates the status of the process:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LR\*O"
Runnable process.
.LI "\*LU\*O"
Uninterruptible sleeping process.
.LI "\*LS\*O"
Process sleeping for less than about 20 seconds.
.LI "\*LI\*O"
Idle (sleeping longer than about 20 seconds) process.
.LI "\*LT\*O"
Stopped process.
.LI "\*LH\*O"
Halted process.
.LE
.PP
Additional characters after these, if any, indicate additional state
information:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LW\*O"
Process is swapped out (shows a blank space if the
process is loaded (in-core)).
.LI "\*L>\*O"
Process has specified
a soft limit on memory requirements and is exceeding that limit;
such a process is (necessarily)
not swapped.
.LE
.PP
An additional letter may indicate whether
a process is running with altered CPU scheduling priority (\*Lnice\*O):
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LN\*O"
Process priority is reduced.
.LI "\*L<\*O"
Process priority has been artificially raised.
.LI "\*L+\*O"
Process is a process group leader with a controlling tty.
.LE
.SS Format Specifiers
The following list contains all format specifiers that can be used
with \*Lps\*O:
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Recoded the top and bottom of the table per USSG doc guidelines.
.\" Added .PP to create space at tops of tables.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB
l l l.
_
.sp 4p
Specifier@Header@Meaning
.sp 4p
_
.sp 6p
command @COMMAND@T{
Command arguments (and environment with BSD \*Le\*O flag)
T}
ucomm@COMMAND@Command name for accounting
logname@LOGNAME@User's login name
flag@F@Process flags
status@STATUS@Process status
uid@UID@Process user ID (effective UID)
ruid@RUID@Process user ID (real UID)
svuid@SVUID@Saved process user ID
rgid@RGID@Process group (real GID)
svgid@SVGID@Saved process group ID
pid@PID@Process ID
ppid@PPID@Parent process ID
cp@CP@T{
Short-term CPU utilization factor (used in scheduling)
T}
wchan@WCHAN@T{
Address of event on which a process is waiting (an address in the
system).  A symbol is chosen that classifies the address, if
available, from the system; otherwise, it is printed numerically.
T}
nwchan@WCHAN@T{
In this case, the initial part of the address is
trimmed off and is printed hexadecimally, for example,
\*L0x80004000\*O prints as \*L4000\*O.
T}
cursig@CURSIG@Current signal
sig@PENDING@Signals pending to this process
sigmask@BLOCKED@Current signal mask
sigignore@IGNORED@Signals being ignored
sigcatch@CAUGHT@Signals being caught
user@USER@Username
ruser@RUSER@User ID
group@GROUP@Group name
rgroup@RGROUP@Real group name
pgid@PGID@Process group ID
jobc@JOBC@T{
Current count of processes qualifying PGID for job control
T}
sess@SESS@Session ID
tdev@TDEV@Major/minor device for controlling tty
tname@TT@Controlling tty device name
longtname@TT@Long controlling tty device name
tpgid@TPGID@T{
Foreground process group associated with tty
T}
tsession@TSESS@Session associated with tty
state@S@Symbolic process status
pri@PRI@T{
Process priority
T}
psxpri@PPR@POSIX scheduling priority
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.\" Begin Digital-specific information 
.\" Added the psxpri line just above for Sue Thorstensen.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Recoded the top and bottom of the table per USSG doc guidelines.
.\" Added .PP to create space at top of table.
.\" changed the line "pri@PRI@TProcess priority (nonpositive twhen in noninterruptable wait)" to
.\" read just "Process priority" per krueger@helix instructions
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB
l l l.
_
.sp 4p
Specifier@Header@Meaning
.sp 4p
_
.sp 6p
usrpri@UPR@Base scheduling priority
nice@NI@T{
Process scheduling increment (see the \*Lsetpriority()\*O call).
T}
vsize@VSZ@Process virtual address size
rssize@RSS@T{
Real memory (resident set) size of the process (in 1024 byte units)
T}
u_procp@UPROCP@Address of process in user area
umask@UMASK@Process umask
acflag@ACFLG@Process accounting flag
start@STARTED@T{
Start time of process.  If start time was more than 24 hours ago,
gives the date.
T}
lstart@STARTED@Start time and date of process
cputime@TIME@Current CPU time used
usertime@USER@Time spent in user space
systime@SYSTEM@Time spent in system
pcpu@%CPU@T{
Percent CPU usage.  This is a decaying average of up to a minute
of previous (real) time.  Since the time base over which this is
computed varies (since processes may be very young), it is possible
for the sum of all \*L%CPU\*O fields to exceed 100%.
T}
pmem@%MEM@Percent real memory usage
sl@SL@Sleep time
pagein@PAGEIN@T{
Number of disk I/Os resulting from references by the process to
pages not loaded in core.
T}
minflt@MINFLT@Page reclaims
majflt@MAJFLT@Page faults
nswap@NSWAP@Swaps
inblock@INBLK@Block input operations
oublock@OUBLK@Block output operations
msgsnd@MSGSND@Messages sent
msgrcv@MSGRCV@Messages received
nsignals@NSIGS@Signals received
nvcsw@VCSW@Voluntary context switches
nivcsw@IVCSW@Involuntary context switches
scount@SCNT@Suspend count
.TE
.PP
Compound format specifiers are made up of groups of individual format
specifiers, as follows:
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Recoded the top and bottom of the table per USSG doc guidelines.
.\" Added .PP to create space at top of table.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
l l .
_
.sp 4p
Specifier@Meaning
.sp 4p
_
.sp 6p
RUSAGE@T{
minflt, majflt, nswap,
inblock, oublock, msgsnd,
msgrcv, nsigs, nvcsw,
nivcsw
T}
THREAD@T{
user, %cpu, pri, scnt,
wchan, usertime, systime
T}
DFMT (default printing format)@T{
pid, tname, state,
cputime, command
T}
LFMT (BSD \*Ll\*O format)@T{
uid, pid, ppid, cp,
pri, nice, vsz, rss,
wchan, state, tname,
cputime, command
T}
JFMT (\*Lj\*O format)@T{
user, pid, ppid, pgid,
sess, jobc, state, tname,
cputime, command
T}
SFMT (BSD \*Ls\*O format)@T{
uid, pid, cursig, sig,
sigmask, sigignore, sigcatch,
stat, tname, command
T}
VFMT (BSD \*Lv\*O format)@T{
pid, tt, state, time,
sl, pagein, vsz, rss,
%cpu, %mem, command
T}
UFMT (BSD \*Lu\*O format)@T{
uname, pid, %cpu, %mem,
vsz, rss, tt, state,
start, time, command
T}
F5FMT (\*Lf\*O format)@T{
uname, pid, ppid, %cpu,
start, tt, time, command
T}
L5FMT (\*Ll\*O format)@T{
f, state, uid, pid,
ppid, %cpu, pri, nice,
rss, wchan, tt, time,
ucomm
T}
FL5FMT (\*Llf\*O format)@T{
f, state, uid, pid,
ppid, %cpu, pri, nice,
rss, wchan, start, time,
command
T}
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Eliminated the following two lines to avoid processing problems.
.\" .T&
.\" l l.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
\*Vprocess_flags\*O@T{
Flags associated with process as in
\*L<sys/proc.h>\*O
T}
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.PP
The flags associated with process as in \*L<sys/proc.h>\*O
(see \*Vprocess_flags\*O in the preceding table) are as follows:
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Recoded the top and bottom of the table per USSG doc guidelines.
.\" Added .PP to create space at top of table.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB lfHB
l l l.
_
.sp 4p
Symbolic Constant@Flag Value (Hex)@Meaning
.sp 4p
_
.sp 6p
SLOAD@0x00000001@T{
In core
T}
SSYS@0x00000002@T{
Swapper or pager process
T}
STRC@0x00000010@T{
Process is being
traced
T}
SOMASK@0x00000200@T{
Restore old mask
after taking signal
T}
SWEXIT@0x00000400@T{
Working on exiting
T}
SPHYSIO@0x00000800@T{
Doing physical I/O
T}
SPAGV@0x00008000@T{
Init data space on
demand, from vnode
T}
SSEQL@0x00010000@T{
User warned of
sequential vm
behavior
T}
SUANOM@0x00020000@T{
User warned of random
vm behavior
T}
STIMO@0x00040000@T{
Timing out during
sleep
T}
SOWEUPC@0x00200000@T{
Owe process an
\*Laddupc()\*O call
T}
SCTTY@0x00800000@T{
Has a controlling
terminal
T}
SXONLY@0x02000000@T{
Process image
read-protected
T}
SNOCLDSTOP@0x40000000@T{
No \*LSIGCHLD\*O when
children stop
T}
SNOCLDWAIT@0X20000000@T{
No zombies when
children exist
T}
SEXEC@0x80000000@T{
Process called
\*Lexec\*O
T}
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L<defunct>\*O"
A process that has exited but whose parent process has
not waited for it is marked \*L<defunct>\*O.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding new status message per Shashi Mangalat
.LI "\*L<error\*O"
A process for which user area information could not
be obtained due to a shortage of system memory.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L<exiting>\*O"
A process that is blocked trying to exit is marked \*L<exiting>\*O.
.LE
.PP
The \*Lps\*O program examines memory to get the filename
and arguments given when the process was created.  The method is
inherently somewhat unreliable because
a process can destroy this information,
so the names cannot be counted on too much.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
The following flags can be used with \*Lps\*O:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-a\*O"
Prints information to standard output
about all processes, except the session
leaders and processes not associated with a terminal.
.LI "\*L\-A\*O"
Writes information for all processes.
.LI "\*L\-d\*O"
Prints information to standard output about all processes, except
the session leaders.
.LI "\*L\-e\*O"
Prints information to standard output about all processes.
Equivalent to \*V-A\*O.
.LI "\*L\-f\*O"
Generates a full listing.
.LI "\*L\-g\*O \*Vglist\*O"
Prints only information about processes that are in the
process groups listed in \*Vglist\*O.  The \*Vglist\*O is
a list of process-group identifiers enclosed in \*L" "\*O
(double quotes) and separated from one another by a comma or one
or more spaces (or tabs), or both.
Because of the way the shell treats
spaces and tabs, you need to quote space-separated lists.
or more spaces (or tabs), or both.
Because of the way the shell treats spaces and tabs, you need to quote
space-separated lists.
.LI "\*L-G \*Vglist\*O"
Writes information for processes whose real group ID numbers or names
are given in \*Vglist\*O.  The \*Vglist\*O is
a list of process-group identifiers enclosed in \*L" "\*O
(double quotes) and separated from one another by a comma or one
or more spaces (or tabs), or both.  Because of the way the shell treats
spaces and tabs, you need to quote space-separated lists.
.LI "\*L\-j\*O"
Produces job control information, with fields specified
for \*Luser\*O, \*Lpid\*O, \*Lppid\*O, \*Lpgid\*O, \*Lsess\*O, \*Ljobc\*O,
\*Lstate\*O, \*Ltname\*O, \*Ltime\*O and \*Lcommand\*O.
.LI "\*L\-l\*O"
Generates a long listing.
.LI "\*L\-m\*O"
Prints all threads in a task, if the task has more than one.
.LI "\*L\-o\*O \*Vspecifier\*O[\*L=\*Vheader\*O]\*L,\*O\&..."
Specifies a list of format specifiers to describe the output format.
.LI "\*L\-O\*O \*Vspecifier\*O[\*L=\*Vheader\*O]\*L,\*O\&..."
Same as \*Lo\*O, except it displays the fields specified
by \*Lpid\*O, \*Lstate\*O,
\*Ltname\*O, \*Ltime\*O, and \*Lcommand\*O in addition to the specifiers
supplied on the command line.
.LI "\*L-n \*Vnlist\*O"
Specifies the name of an alternative system \*Vnamelist\*O file in
place of the default.
.LI "\*L\-p\*O \*Vplist\*O"
Displays only information about processes with the process numbers
specified in \*Vplist\*O.  The \*Vplist\*O argument is
either a list of process ID numbers or a list of
process ID numbers enclosed in \*L" "\*O (double quotes)
and separated from one another by a comma or one or more spaces (or
tabs), or both.  Because of the way the shell treats
spaces and tabs, you need to quote space-separated lists.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding -r option per Sashi Mangalat.
.LI "\*L\-r\*O"
Enables warning messages.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L\-s\*O \*Vslist\*O"
Displays information about processes belonging to the sessions specified
in \*Vslist\*O.  The \*Vslist\*O argument is
either a list of session ID numbers or a list of
session ID numbers enclosed in \*L" "\*O (double quotes)
and separated from one another by a comma or one or more spaces (or
tabs), or both.  Because of the way the shell treats
spaces and tabs, you need to quote space-separated lists.
.LI "\*L\-t\*O \*Vtlist\*O"
Displays only information about processes associated with the
terminals listed in \*Vtlist\*O.  The \*Vtlist\*O argument is either a
list of terminal identifiers
or a list of terminal identifiers enclosed in
\*L" "\*O (double quotes) and separated from one another
by a comma or one or more spaces, or both.  Because of
the way the shell treats spaces and tabs,
you need to quote space-separated lists.
.IP
Terminal identifiers must be in one of two forms:
.AL
.LI
The device's filename
.LI
The device's digit identifier, if the device's filename begins with
\*Ltty\*O
.LE
.LI "\*L\-u\*O \*Vulist\*O"
Displays only information about processes with the user ID numbers or
login names specified in \*Vulist\*O.  The \*Vulist\*O argument is either a
list of user IDs or a list of user IDs
enclosed in \*L" "\*O (double quotes) and separated from
one another by a comma or one or more spaces,
or both.  Because of the way the shell treats spaces and tabs,
you need to quote space-separated lists.
.IP
In the listing, \*Lps\*O
displays the numerical user ID unless the \*L\-f\*O flag is used;
then it displays the login name.
.LI "\*L-U \*Vulist\*O"
Writes information for processes whose real user ID numbers or login
names are given in \*Vulist\*O.  The \*Vulist\*O argument is either a
list of user IDs or a list of user IDs
enclosed in \*L" "\*O (double quotes) and separated from
one another by a comma or one or more spaces,
or both.  Because of the way the shell treats spaces and tabs,
you need to quote space-separated lists.
.LE
.PP
The following BSD compatible flags can be used with \*Lps\*O
(note that these flags are not prefixed with a \*L\-\*O (dash) character):
.VL 4m
.LI "\*La\*O"
Asks for information regarding processes associated with
terminals (ordinarily only one's own processes are displayed).
.LI "\*LA\*O"
Increases the argument space.
.LI "\*Le\*O"
Asks for the environment to be printed, as well as the arguments
to the command.
.LI "\*Lg\*O"
Asks for all processes.  Without this flag, \*Lps\*O
only prints \*Vinteresting\*O processes.  Processes are deemed to
be uninteresting if they are process group leaders.
This normally eliminates top-level command interpreters and processes
waiting for users to log in on free terminals.
.LI "\*Lh\*O"
Repeats the header after each screenful of information.
.LI "\*Lj\*O"
Produces job control information, with fields specified by
\*Luser\*O, \*Lppid\*O,
\*Lpgid\*O, \*Lsess\*O, and \*Ljobc\*O.
.LI "\*Ll\*O"
Asks for a detailed list, with fields specified by \*Lppid\*O, \*Lcp\*O,
\*Lpri\*O, \*Lnice\*O, \*Lvsize\*O, \*Lrssize\*O and
\*Lwchan\*O.
.LI "\*LL\*O"
Lists all available format specifiers.
.LI "\*Lm\*O"
Prints all threads in a task, if the task has more than one.
.LI "\*Lo\*O \*Vspecifier\*O[\*L=\*Vheader\*O]\*L,\*O\&..."
Specifies a list of format specifiers to describe the output format.
.LI "\*LO\*O \*Vspecifier\*O[\*L=\*Vheader\*O]\*L,\*O\&..."
Same as \*Lo\*O, except it displays the fields specified
by \*Lpid\*O, \*Lstate\*O,
\*Ltname\*O, \*Lcputime\*O, and \*Lcomm\*O in addition to the specifiers
supplied on the command line.
.LI "\*Ls\*O"
Gives signal states of the processes, with fields specified by
\*Luid\*O, \*Lcursig\*O, \*Lsig\*O, \*Lsigmask\*O, \*Lsigignore\*O,
and \*Lsigcatch\*O.
.LI "\*LS\*O"
Prints usage summaries (total usage of a command, as opposed to current
usage).
.LI "\*Lt\*Vtty\*O"
Lists only processes for the specified tty.
.LI "\*LT\*O"
Lists all processes on your tty.
.LI "\*Lu\*O"
Produces a user oriented output. This includes fields
specified by \*Luser\*O,
\*Lpcpu\*O, \*Lpmem\*O, \*Lvsize\*O, \*Lrssize\*O,
and \*Lstart\*O.
.LI "\*Lv\*O"
Produces a version of the output containing virtual memory statistics.
This includes fields specified by
\*Lcputime\*O, \*Lsl\*O, \*Lpagein\*O, \*Lvsize\*O,
\*Lrssize\*O, \*Lpcpu\*O, and \*Lpmem\*O.
.LI "\*Lw\*O"
Uses a wide output format (132 columns (bytes) rather than 80); if
this flag is doubled (\*Lww\*O), uses an arbitrarily wide output.
This information determines how much of long commands to print.
.LI "\*Lx\*O"
Asks even about processes with no terminal.
.LI "\*Vprocess_number\*O"
Restricts output to the specified process.
This argument must be entered last on the command line.
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
The following BSD compatible flags are not supported.  (You can
reconstruct the output of these flags by using the appropriate
format specifiers, however.)
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lc\*O"
Displays the command name, as stored internally in the system for purposes
of accounting, rather than the command arguments, which are kept
in the process's address space.
.LI "\*Ln\*O"
Displays numeric output.
In a long listing, the \*Lwchan\*O field is printed numerically rather than
symbolically.  In a user listing, the \*Luser\*O field is replaced by a
\*Luid\*O field.
.LE
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Taken from the BL11 Release Notes
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
When you enter a \*Lps\*O command while running an application that
forks child processes, you might see some child processes listed as
being in the \*L<defunct>\*O state after they have exited.  Processes
in this state cannot be killed until the process that forked them is killed.
.PP
The system puts exiting child processes in the \*L<defunct>\*O state
if their parent process is still running and has not caught the
SIGCHLD signal or executed a \*Lwait()\*O system call.
.PP
To avoid having users encounter this problem when they run your
application, make sure that your program logic either catches the
SIGCHLD signal or executes a \*Lwait()\*O system call when spawning
a child process.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To list all your processes, enter:
.iS
ps
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To list all processes, enter:
.iS
ps  \-A
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The BSD equivalent looks like this:
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Changed 'Is as' to 'ps ax' per QAR 13227.
.iS
ps ax
\*O\c
.iE
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.LI
To list processes owned by specific users, enter:
.iS
ps  \-f  \-l  \-ujim,jane,su
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To list processes associated with a specific tty, enter:
.iS
ps  \-t console
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The BSD equivalent looks like this:
.iS
ps tco
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To display only the \*Lpid\*O, \*Luser\*O, and \*Lcomm\*O information
for all processes, enter:
.iS
ps \-o pid,user,comm \-A
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To display the parent process ID under the header \*LPARENT\*O,
as well as the default headers (fields specified
by \*Lpid\*O, \*Lstate\*O, \*Ltname\*O,
\*Ltime\*O, \*Lcommand\*O), enter:
.iS
ps \-O ppid=PARENT
\*O\c
.iE
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 7m
.LI "\*L/dev\*O"
Searched to find tty names.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lkill\*O(1), \*Lw\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
