.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pswrap.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.4.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/07/08 21:11:03 $
.\"
.\"
.\" .na
.\" .nh
.TH pswrap 1 "" "" "" "Adobe Systems"
.SH NAME
\*Lpswrap\*O \- creates C routines from pieces of PostScript language
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Lpswrap\*O
[\*L\-a\*O] [\*L\-b\*O] [\*L\-h \*Vfilename\*O] [\*L\-o \*Vfilename\*O]
[\*L\-r\*O]
[\*L\-s \*Vlength\*O] \*Vfile\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "pswrap"
\*Lpswrap\*O reads input from file and creates C-callable procedures that
send PostScript language code to the PostScript interpreter. For
complete documentation of \*Lpswrap\*O and the language it accepts, see the
\*Vpswrap Reference Manual\*O from Adobe Systems, Inc.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-a\*O"
produces ANSI C procedure prototypes.
.LI "\*L\-b\*O"
allows a large file to be processed.
.LI "\*L\-h \*Vfilename\*O"
produces a header file of C declarations for the
generated procedures in \*Vfilename\*O.
.LI "\*L\-o \*Vfilename\*O"
causes \*Lpswrap\*O to place its output in \*Vfilename\*O.
.LI "\*L\-r\*O"
generates reentrant code.
.LI "\*L\-s \*Vlength\*O"
sets the maximum string length to \*Vlength\*O.
.LE
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Adobe Systems Incorporated
.SH NOTES
.PP
PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated.
.PP
Copyright (c) 1988-1991 Adobe Systems Incorporated.  All rights reserved.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
