.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: puzzle.1X,v $ $Revision: 1.2.6.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/17 00:09:48 $
.\" 
.TH puzzle 1X "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
puzzle \- 15-puzzle game for X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B puzzle 
[-option ...]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-display \f2display\fP
This option specifies the display to use; see \f2X(1)\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-geometry \f2geometry\fP
This option specifies the size and position of the puzzle window;
see \f2X(1X)\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-size \f2WIDTH\fPx\f2HEIGHT\fP
This option specifies the size of the puzzle in squares.
.TP 8
.B \-speed \f2num\fP
This option specifies the speed in tiles per second for moving tiles
around.
.TP 8
.B \-picture \f2filename\fP
This option specifies an image file containing the picture to use on the
tiles.  Try ``mandrill.cm.''  This only works on 8-bit pseudo-color
screens.
.TP 8
.B \-colormap
This option indicates that the program should create its own colormap
for the picture option.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Puzzle
with no arguments plays a 4x4 15-puzzle.  The control bar has two boxes in
it.  Clicking in the left box scrambles the puzzle.  Clicking in the right
box solves the puzzle.  Clicking the middle button anywhere else in the 
control bar causes puzzle to exit.
Clicking in the tiled region moves the empty spot to that
location if the region you click in is in the same row or column as the
empty slot. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1X)
.SH BUGS
The picture option should work on a wider variety of screens.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1988, Don Bennett.
.SH AUTHOR
Don Bennett, HP Labs
.EQ
delim off
.EN
