.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: quota.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.7.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/29 19:58:12 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.TH quota 1
.SH NAME
\*Lquota\*O \- Displays disk usage and limits
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lquota\*O
\*O[\*L\-g\*O]
\*O[\*Vgroup\*O]
\*O[\*L\-u\*O]
\*O[\*Vuser\*O]
\*O[\*L\-q\*O
|
\*L\-v\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lquota\*O command displays users' disk usage and limits.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "quota command"
.iX "displaying" "disk usage and limits"
.iX "disk" "displaying usage"
.PP
By default only your user quota are printed.  If you specify \*L\-g\*O,
\*Lquota\*O displays group quotas for the groups of which you are a member.
Only a user with superuser authority can use the optional \*Vuser\*O
argument with the \*L\-u\*O flag to view information about another user,
or use the optional \*Vgroup\*O argument with the \*L\-g\*O flag to view information about a group to which that user does not belong.
.PP
Unless you use the \*L\-v\*O flag,
The \*Lquota\*O command reports only on file systems listed in
\*L/etc/fstab\*O that have disk quotas.  If \*Lquota\*O
exits with a nonzero status, one or more file systems are over quota.
.PP
Quotas are given in block sizes of 1024 byte blocks.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-g\*O \*Vgroup\*O"
Displays group quotas for groups of which you are a member, in addition to
your user quotas, when specified without the \*Vgroup\*O argument.
Displays group quotas for \*Vgroup\*O when you specify \*Vgroup\*O.
.LI "\*L\-q\*O"
Prints information only for file systems where usage is over quota.
Takes precedence over the \*L\-v\*O flag.
.LI "\*L\-u\*O \*Vuser\*O"
Displays only your user quotas (the default) when specified
without the \*Vuser\*O argument.  Displays user quotas for
\*Vuser\*O when you specify \*Vuser\*O.
.LI "\*L\-v\*O"
Displays quota information for all mounted file systems, regardless of
whether the user has any files on a given file system, or whether
quotas are enabled on that file system.  The \*L\-q\*O flag
takes precedence over the \*L\-v\*O flag.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 14m
.LI "[\*Vfilesystem_root\*O]/\*Lquota.user\*O"
Contains user quotas for \*Vfilesystem\*O.
.LI "[\*Vfilesystem_root\*O]/\*Lquota.group\*O"
Contains user quotas for \*Vfilesystem\*O.
.LI "\*L/etc/fstab\*O"
Contains filesystem names and locations.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Ledquota\*O(8), \*Lquotacheck\*O(8),
\*Lquotaon\*O(8)/\*Lquotaoff\*O(8), \*Lrepquota\*O(8).
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Removed bogus xef per QAR 9567.  OSF/1 Rel1.1 does not include
.\" either the reference or the manpage.
Functions: \*Lquotactl\*O(2), \*Lsetquota\*O(2).
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP
Files:  \*Lfstab\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
