.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ranlib.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/14 13:27:28 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH ranlib 1
.SH NAME
\*Lranlib\*O \- Converts archives to random libraries
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lranlib\*O
\*O[\*L-t\*O]
\*Varchive\*O
\&...
.sE 
.PP
The \*Lranlib\*O command converts each archive file \*Varchive\*O to a
format that enables fast, random access by the linker.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-t\*O"
Touches the named archives without modifying them.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "ranlib command"
.iX "converting" "archives to random libraries"
.iX "archive" "converting to random libraries"
.iX "libraries" "random"
.iX "libraries" "converted from archives"
.iX "random libraries"
.PP 
If you specify the \*L-t\*O flag, the \*Lranlib\*O command only touches the
archives and does not modify them.  This is useful after copying an archive
or using \*Lmake\*O with the \*L-t\*O flag in order to avoid having
\*Lld\*O display an error message about an out-of-date symbol table.
.PP 
The \*Lranlib\*O command is included for compatibility only.  \*Lranlib\*O
is a shell script that invokes the \*Lar\*O command
with the appropriate flags (\*Lar -rs\*O for \*Lranlib\*O with no flags,
and \*Lar -h\*O for \*Lranlib -t\*O).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
To convert the archive file \*Lgenlib.a\*O, enter:
.iS
ranlib genlib.a
\*O\c
.iE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands: \*Lar\*O(1), \*Llorder\*O(1), \*Lmake\*O(1).
.PP 
The \*Las\*O, \*Lgcc\*O (\*Lcc\*O), \*Lgdb\*O, and \*Lld\*O
commands may be available on your system, but are not provided with OSF/1.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
