.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rcp.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/07/22 13:32:50 $
.\" 
...\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" 
.TH rcp 1
.iX "rcp command"
.iX "copying" "files between hosts"
.iX "files" "copying between hosts"
.iX "remote" "copying"
.iX "hosts" "copying files between"
.SH NAME
.PP 
\*Lrcp\*O - Copies files between a local and a remote host or between two remote hosts
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lrcp\*O
\*O[\*L-pr\*O]
\*Vsource\*O
\*Vdestination\*O
.sE 
.PP
The remote copy command (\*Lrcp\*O) is
used to copy one or more files between
the local host and a remote host, between two remote hosts, or between
files at the same remote host.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Preserves the modification times and modes of the source files
in the copies sent to the destination.  Without this flag, the
\*Lumask\*O command at the
destination modifies the mode of the destination
file, and the modification time of the destination file is set to the
time the file is received.
.LI "\*L-r\*O" 
Copies recursively, for directories only, each file and subdirectory
in the source directory into the destination directory.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP 
By default, the mode and owner of an
existing destination file are preserved.  Normally, if a destination
file does not exist, the mode of the destination file is equal to the
mode of the source file as modified by the \*Lumask\*O command at the
destination host.  If the \*L-p\*O flag is set, the modification
time and mode of source files are preserved at the destination host.
If a remote hostname is not specified for either the source or the
destination, \*Lrcp\*O is equivalent to the \*Lcp\*O command.
.PP 
When copying files to or from a remote host, any remote filename or
directory name must be prefixed by the name of the remote
host and a : (colon).  Local filenames and directory names do not
need to have a host specified.  However, since \*Lrcp\*O
assumes that a colon terminates a hostname, local filenames
or directory names must have a \e (backslash)
inserted before any colons embedded in the name.
.PP 
The username entered for the remote host determines the file access
privileges \*Lrcp\*O uses at that host.  Additionally, the username given
to a destination host determines the ownership and access modes of the
resulting destination file or files. If a hostname is not prefixed
by \*Vuser\*L@\*O, the local username is used at the
remote host.  If a username is entered, that name is used.
In either case, the remote host allows access if one of the
following conditions is satisfied:
.ML  
.LI 
The local host is included in the remote host's \*L/etc/hosts\&.equiv\*O
file and the remote user is not the superuser.
.LI
The local host and username is included in a \*L$HOME/\&.rhosts\*O file in
the home directory of the remote user account.
For security reasons, any \*L$HOME/\&.rhosts\*O
file must be owned by either the
remote user or the root user and should allow Write
access only by the owner.
.LE 
.PP 
In addition to the preceding conditions, \*Lrcp\*O also allows access
to the remote host if the remote user account does not have a password
defined.  However, for security reasons, use of a password on all
user accounts is recommended.
.PP 
If the path for a file or directory on a remote host is not
specified or is not fully qualified, the path is interpreted as
beginning at the home directory for the remote user account.
Additionally, any metacharacters that must be interpreted at a remote
host must be quoted using \e (backslash), "" (double
quotes), or '' (single quotes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
.AL 3m 
.LI
To copy a file named \*Llocalfile\*O from the local
host to a remote host named \*Lhost2\*O, enter:
.iS
rcp localfile host2:/u/eng/fred
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To copy a remote file named \*Lnewplan\*O from one
remote host, \*Lhost1\*O, to another remote host,
\*Lhost2\*O, enter:
.iS
rcp host1:/u/eng/fred/newplan host2:/u/eng/mary
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To send a directory subtree \*Lreport\*O from the local host
to the home directory of a user named \*Lfred\*O at a remote host
named \*Lhost2\*O, and preserve all modes and modification times,
enter:
.iS
rcp -p -r report fred@host2:report
\*O\c
.iE
The remote file \*L/u/fred/.rhosts\*O includes an entry specifying
the local host and username.
.LE 
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The \*Lrcp\*O command is confused by output generated by commands
in a \*L\&.cshrc\*O file on the remote host.  In particular,
the messages, \*Cwhere are you?\*O
and \*Cstty: Can't assign requested address\*O can result if output
is generated by the startup file.
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/etc/hosts\&.equiv\*O"
Specifies remote hosts from which users can execute commands on the local
host (provided these users have an account on the local host).
.LI "\*L$HOME/\&.rhosts\*O" 
Specifies remote users who can use a local user account.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lrsh\*O(1), \*Lrlogin\*O(1), \*Lrshd\*O(8).
.PP 
Files:  \*Lrhosts\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
