.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rcvstore.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:38:20 $
.\"
.TH rcvstore 1
.SH NAME
rcvstore \- incorporate new mail asynchronously
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B rcvstore
[
\*V+folder \*O
] [
.B "\-[no]create"
] [
.B \-help
] [
.B "\-sequence \f2name\f3"
] [
.B \-[no]public
] [
.B \-[no]zero
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "rcvstore command"
.PP
The command \*Lrcvstore\*O incorporates a message from the standard input
into an MH folder.
If a
\*V+folder\*O
argument is not given
the file is placed in your \*L+inbox\*O folder.
The new message being incorporated is assigned the next highest
number in the folder.
.PP
If the specified (or default) folder does not exist,
it is created if the
.B \-create
option is specified;
otherwise \*Lrcvstore\*O exits.
.PP
If your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O file contains a
\*LMsg-Protect:\*O entry,
it is used as the protection on the newly created messages;
otherwise the MH default of 0600 is used.
During all operations on messages,
this initially assigned protection
is preserved for each message.
You can use \*Lchmod\*O to change the protection on an individual message,
and the new protection is preserved thereafter.
.PP
The \*Lrcvstore\*O command incorporates anything except zero length messages
into your MH folder.
.PP
If the profile entry \*LUnseen-Sequence:\*O
is present and non-empty, then \*Lrcvstore\*O adds the
newly incorporated message to each
sequence named by the profile entry.
Note that \*Lrcvstore\*O does not zero each sequence prior to adding messages.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP "\-create" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-nocreate" 10
.PD
Creates the specified folder.
If you attempt to incorporate mail into a folder
that does not exist, \*Lrcvstore\*O creates the folder if you supply the
.B \-create
option.
If you supply the
.B \-nocreate
option, the folder is not created and \*Lrcvstore\*O exits.
The default is
.BR \-create .
.\"
.IP "\-help" 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.IP "\-public" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-nopublic" 10
.PD
Sets the read permissions of sequences.
Normally, when you create a sequence with the
.B \-sequence
option, the sequence is not accessible
to other MH users.
The
.B \-public
option makes the sequence accessible to other MH users.
You can use the
.B \-nopublic
option to ensure that the sequence that you create
is only accessible to yourself.
.\"
.IP "\-sequence \f2name\f3" 10
Specifies a sequence in which \*Lrcvstore\*O places the
messages which it incorporates.
For more information on sequences, see \*Lmark\*O(1). The
name of the sequence must begin with a letter,
and must consist entirely of alphabetic or numeric characters;
no punctuation is allowed.
.\"
.IP "\-zero" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-nozero" 10
.PD
Specifies whether to zero existing sequences
before adding new messages.
Normally, \*Lrcvstore\*O removes all existing messages from a sequence before
adding messages to it.
If you specify the
.B \-nozero
option, \*Lrcvstore\*O adds the messages it finds to the existing contents
of the sequence.
This option only works with the
.B \-sequence
option.
.\"
.PP
The defaults for this command are:
.IP
\*V+folder\*O
defaults to \*L+inbox\*O
.br
.B \-create
.br
.B \-nopublic
if the folder is read-only,
otherwise
.B \-public
.br
.B \-nozero
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine your Mail directory
Folder-Protect:+To set protections when creating a new folder
Msg-Protect:+To set protections when creating a new message
Unseen-Sequence:+To name sequences denoting unseen messages
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L$HOME/.mh_profile\*O
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lchmod\*O(1), \*Linc\*O(1), \*Lmark\*O(1), \*Lpick\*O(1),
\*Lmh-mail\*O(4), \*Lmh_profile\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
