.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rdist.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 19:45:59 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH rdist 1
.SH NAME
\*Lrdist\*O \- Maintains identical copies of files on multiple hosts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lrdist\*O
\*O[\*L-bDhinqRvwy\*O]
\*O[\*L-f\*O
\*Vdistfile\*O
|
\*L-]
\*O[\*L-d\*O
\*Vvariable\*O=\*Vvalue\*O]
\*O[\*L-m\*O
\*Vhost\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O
\&...]
.PP
\*Lrdist\*O
\*O[\*L-bhinqRvwy\*O]
\*L-c\*Vsource\*O
\&...
\*O[\*Vlogin\*L@\*O]\*Vhost\*O[\*L:\*Vdest\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lrdist\*O command
maintains identical copies of files on multiple hosts.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-b\*O"
Performs a binary comparison; updates files if they differ.
.LI "\*L-c\*O \*Vsource\*O \&..."
Forces \*Lrdist\*O to interpret the remaining arguments as the sources of
small distfiles in the following format:
.iS
(\*Vname\*O ... \*L)->\*O[\*Vlogin\*L@\*O]\*Vhost\*O[\*L:\*Vdest\*O]
\*Linstall\*O [\*Vdest\*O]\*L;\*O\c
.iE
.sp 0.4v
The rest of the command line is treated as if it came from a distfile.
.LI "\*L-d\*O \*Vvariable\*O=\*Vvalue\*O"
Defines \*Vvariable\*O to have \*Vvalue\*O.
This flag defines or overrides variable definitions in the \*Vdistfile\*O.
\*Vvalue\*O can be the empty string, one name, or a list of names
surrounded by parentheses and separated by tabs or spaces, or both.
.LI "\*L-D\*O"
Turns on debugging output.
.LI "\*L-f\*O \*Vdistfile\*O | \*L-\*O"
Specifies another name for \*Vdistfile\*O; specify \*L-\*O for standard
input.
.LI "\*L-h\*O"
Copies the file that the link points to rather than the link itself.
.LI "\*L-i\*O"
Ignores unresolved links.  \*Lrdist\*O
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Corrected 'transferred' per QAR 6104.
maintains the link structure of files being transferred
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
and warns users if it cannot find all the links.
.LI "\*L-m\*O \*Vhost\*O"
Limits which machines are to be updated.  You can use multiple
\*Vhost\*O arguments to limit updates to a subset of the hosts listed in
\*Vdistfile\*O.
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Prints the commands without executing them.  This flag is
useful for debugging \*Vdistfile\*O.
.LI "\*L-q\*O"
Operates in quiet mode.  This flag
suppresses printing of modified file on standard output.
.LI "\*L-R\*O"
Removes extraneous files. If a directory is
being updated, any files that exist
on the remote host that do not exist in the master directory are removed.
This is useful for maintaining identical copies of directories.
.LI "\*L-v\*O"
Verifies that the files are up to date on all the hosts. Any files
that are out of date will be displayed, but
\*Lrdist\*O does not change any files or send any mail.
.LI "\*L-w\*O"
Appends the whole filename to the destination directory name.  Normally,
\*Lrdist\*O uses only the last component of a name for
renaming files, preserving
the directory structure of the copied files.
.LI "\*L-y\*O"
Prevents recent copies of files from being replaced by files that
are not as recent.  Files are normally updated when their time stamp and size
(see \*Lstat()\*O) differ. The \*L-y\*O flag
prevents \*Lrdist\*O from updating files younger than the master file.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "rdist command"
.iX "remote" "file distribution system"
.iX "files" "maintaining remote copies"
.iX "hosts" "maintaining file copies"
.PP
The \*Lrdist\*O command
preserves the owner, group, mode, and modification time
of files if possible. It can also update programs that are executing.
\*Lrdist\*O reads commands from \*Vdistfile\*O
in your \*L$HOME\*O directory
and directs the updating of files or directories, or both.
If \*Vdistfile\*O is a \*L-\*O (dash), standard input is used.
.PP
If no \*L-f\*O flag is specified,
the program looks first for \*Ldistfile\*O,
then \*LDistfile\*O to use as the input.
If no filenames are specified on the command line, \*Lrdist\*O
updates all of the files and directories listed in \*Vdistfile\*O.
Otherwise, the argument is read as the name of a file to be updated
or a command to execute. If the name of the file specified by the
\*Vfile\*O argument is the same as the name of a command, the
\*Lrdist\*O command treats the filename as a command.
.PP
The file specified by \*Vdistfile\*O
contains a sequence of entries that specify the files
to be copied, the destination hosts, and what operations to perform
to do the updating. Each entry has one of the following formats.
.iS
<\*Vvariable_name\*O> \*L'='\*O <\*Vname_list\*O>
[\*Vlabel\*L:\*O] <\*Vsource_list\*O> \*L'->'\*O <\*Vdestination_list\*O> <\*Vcommand_list\*O>
[\*Vlabel\*L:\*O] <\*Vsource_list\*O> \*L'::'\*O <\*Vtimestamp_file\*O> <\*Vcommand_list\*O>
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The first format is used for defining variables.
The second format is used for distributing files to other hosts.
The third format is used for making lists of files that were changed
since some given date.
.PP
The \*Vsource_list\*O specifies a
list of files or directories, or both, on the local host that is to be used
as the master copy for distribution.
The \*Vdestination_list\*O is the list of hosts to which these files are
to be copied.  Each file in the source list is added to a list of changes
if the file is out of date on the host that
is being updated (second format) or
the file is newer than \*Vtimestamp_file\*O (third format).
.PP
Labels are optional. They are used to identify a command for partial updates.
.PP
Newlines, tabs, and spaces are only used as separators and are
otherwise ignored. Comments begin with a \*L#\*O (number sign)
and end with a newline.
.PP
Variables to be expanded begin with a \*L$\*O (dollar sign)
followed by one character or
a name enclosed in { } (braces) (see \*LEXAMPLES\*O).
.PP
Each line of the source and destination lists contains zero or more
\*Vname\*Os, separated by spaces.
The shell metacharacters \*L[\*O, \*L]\*O, \*L{\*O, \*L}\*O, \*L*\*O, and
\*L?\*O
are recognized and expanded (on the local host only) as
with \*Lcsh\*O.  They can be escaped with a \e (backslash).
The \*L~\*O (tilde) character is also expanded as with
\*Lcsh\*O, but is expanded separately on the local and destination hosts.
When the \*L-w\*O flag is used with a filename that begins with \*L\~\*O,
everything except the home directory is appended to the destination name.
Filenames that do not begin with a \*L/\*O (slash) or a \*L\~\*O (tilde)
use the destination user's
home directory as the root directory for the rest of the filename.
.PP
The command list consists of zero or more commands of the following
format:
.iS
\*Linstall\*O <\*Voption\*O \&.\&.\&.> <\*Vdestination_name\*O>
\*Lnotify\*O <\*Vname_list\*O>
\*Lexcept\*O <\*Vname_list\*O>
\*Lexcept_pat\*O <\*Vpattern_list\*O>
\*Lspecial\*O <\*Vname_list\*O> \*Vstring\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The \*Linstall\*O
command is used to copy out of date files or directories, or both.
Each source file is copied to each host in the destination list.
Directories are recursively copied in the same way.
\*Vdestination_name\*O is an optional argument to rename files.
If no \*Linstall\*O
command appears in the command list or
the destination name is not specified,
the source filename is used.
.PP
Directories in the pathname are created if they
do not exist on the remote host.
To help prevent disasters, a nonempty directory on a target host will
never be replaced with a regular file or a symbolic link.
However, under the \*L-R\*O flag, a nonempty directory is removed
if the corresponding filename is completely absent on the master host.
.PP
Flags for \*Linstall\*O
are \*L-R\*O, \*L-h\*O, \*L-i\*O, \*L-v\*O, \*L-w\*O, \*L-y\*O, and \*L-b\*O
and have the same semantics as
flags on the command line, except they only apply to the files
in the source list.
The username used on the destination host is the same as the local host
unless the destination name is of the format \*Vuser\*L@\*Vhost\*O.
.PP
The \*Lnotify\*O
command is used to mail the list of files updated (and any errors
that may have occurred) to the listed names.
If no \*L@\*O (at sign)
appears in the name, the destination host is appended to
the name (for example, \*Lname1@host\*O, \*Lname2@host\*O, ...).
.PP
The \*Lexcept\*O
command is used to update all of the files in the source list
for the files listed in \*Vname_list\*O.
This is usually used to copy everything in a directory, except certain files.
.PP
The \*Lexcept_pat\*O
command is like the \*Lexcept\*O
command, except that \*Vpattern_list\*O is a list of regular expressions
(see \*Lgrep\*O for details).
If one of the patterns matches some string within a filename, that file is
ignored.  Note that since \e (backslash)
is a quote character, it must be doubled to become
part of the regular expression.  Variables are expanded in
\*Vpattern_list\*O,
but not shell file pattern-matching characters.  To include a \*L$\*O
(dollar sign), it must be escaped with \e (backslash).
.PP
The \*Lspecial\*O
command is used to specify
\*Lsh\*O commands that are to be executed on the
remote host after the file in \*Vname_list\*O is updated or installed.
If the \*Vname_list\*O is omitted, the shell commands are executed
for every file updated or installed.  The \*LFILE\*O shell variable
is set to the current filename before executing the commands in \*Vstring\*O.
\*Vstring\*O starts and ends with a \*O
(double quote) and can cross multiple lines in \*Vdistfile\*O.  Separate
multiple commands to the shell with a ; (semicolon).
Commands are executed in your home directory on the host
being updated.  The \*Lspecial\*O
command can be used to rebuild private databases and so forth
after a program is updated.
.\"Removed Restrictions section per Submit for QAR 18900.
.\"Sterling: T. Wolklin
.\".SH RESTRICTIONS
.\".PP
.\"In the DEC OSF/1 release
.\".PN /usr/bin/rdist
.\"is set to mode 700, which
.\"allows only the root user to execute this command.  The normal mode is
.\"4711, which is setuid to root and executable by normal users.  However,
.\"using the normal setting, a security hole develops whereby non-root
.\"users can gain root access to the system.  Digital strongly recommends
.\"that you leave the modes on
.\".PN rdist
.\"set to mode 700.  If you have root access to the system, you can make
.\"use of the
.\".PN rdist
.\"program by running
.\".PN rdist
.\"from the
.\".PN root
.\"crontab file,
.\".PN /var/spool/cron/crontabs/root .
.\"If you do not have root access to the system,
.\"you can arrange for your system administrator to set up
.\".PN rdist
.\"files for you.
.\" Added this restriction per Sandeep
.PP
If you run the
.PN rdist
command as a normal user and any of the target hosts does
not allow normal users to run
.PN rdist ,
updates to that host will fail with the following error message:
.iS
rdist:  connection failed:  version numbers don't match
.iE
.\"Note that you will get this message if a target system has the mode
.\"permissions for
.\".PN rdist
.\"set to deny access to normal users as a precaution against
.\"a security hole in the
.\".PN rdist
.\"command in releases of DEC OSF/1 prior to Version 2.0.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following is a small example of a \*Ldistfile\*O:
.iS
HOSTS = ( matisse root@arpa)
FILES = ( /bin /lib /usr/bin /usr/games
	/usr/include/{*.h,{stand,sys,vax*,pascal,machine}/*.h}
	/usr/lib /usr/man/man? /usr/ucb /usr/local/rdist )
EXLIB = ( Mail.rc aliases aliases.dir aliases.pag crontab dshrc
	sendmail.cf sendmail.fc sendmail.hf sendmail.st uucp vfont )
${FILES} -> ${HOSTS}
	install -R ;
	except /usr/lib/${EXLIB} ;
	except /usr/games/lib ;
	special /usr/sbin/sendmail "/usr/sbin/sendmail -bz" ;
srcs:
/usr/src/bin -> arpa
	except_pat ( \e\e.o\e$ /SCCS\e$ ) ;
IMAGEN = (ips dviimp catdvi)
imagen:
/usr/local/${IMAGEN} -> arpa
	install /usr/local/lib ;
	notify ralph ;
${FILES} :: stamp.cory
	notify root@cory ;
\*O\c
.iE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L$HOME/distfile\*O"
Contains a list of commands to be read by \*Lrdist\*O.
.LI "\*L/tmp/rdist*\*O"
Contains update lists temporarily.
.LE
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
A complaint about mismatch of \*Lrdist\*O version numbers may really stem
from some problem with starting your shell; for example,
you are in too many groups.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcsh\*O(1), \*Lgrep\*O(1)/\*Legrep\*O(1)/\*Lfgrep\*O(1),
\*Lksh\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
