.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: refile.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:38:30 $
.\"
.TH refile 1
.SH NAME
refile \- file message in other folders
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B refile
[
\*Vmsgs\*O
] [
\*V+folder\*O
] [
\*Voptions\*O
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "refile command"
.iX "messages" "filing in other folders"
Use the \*Lrefile\*O command
to move the specified message from the current folder
to another folder.
You can refile messages in more than one folder
by giving multiple folder names as arguments.
.PP
If you do not specify a message, the current message is refiled.
You can refile a message other than the current message
by giving its number as a
\*Vmsgs \*O
argument.
You can also refile more than one message at a time
by specifying more than one message number,
or a range of message numbers,
or a message sequence.
See \*Lmark\*O(1) for more information on sequences.
.PP
The current folder remains the same unless the
.B \-src
option is specified; in that case,
the source folder becomes current.
Normally, the last message specified becomes the current message.
However, if the
.B \-link
option is used, the current message is not changed.
.PP
If the \*LPrevious-Sequence:\*O entry is set in
the \*L\&.mh_profile\*O file,
in addition to defining the named sequences from the source
folder, \*Lrefile\*O will
also define those sequences for the destination folders.
See \*Lmh_profile\*O(4) for information concerning the previous sequence.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP "\-draft" 10
Refiles the draft message, or the current message in
your \*L+drafts\*O folder, if you have one set up.
You cannot give a
\*Vmsgs\*O
argument when you use this option.
.\"
.IP "\-file \f2filename\f3" 10
Moves a file into a folder.
This option takes a file from its directory
and places it in the named folder,
as the next message in the folder.
The file must be formatted as a legal mail message.
This means that the message must have
the minimum header fields separated
from the body of the message
by a blank line or a line of dashes.
.\"
.IP \-help 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.IP \-link 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nolink 10
.PD
Keeps a copy of the message in the source folder.
Normally, \*Lrefile\*O removes the messages from the original folder
when it refiles them.
The
.B \-link
option keeps a copy in the original folder,
as well as filing a copy in the new folder.
.\"
.IP \-preserve 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nopreserve 10
.PD
Preserves the number of a message in the new folder.
Normally, when a message is refiled in to another folder,
it is set to the next available number in that folder.
The
.B \-preserve
option keeps the number of the message the same
in the new folder as it had been in the old.
.IP
You cannot have two messages with the same number
in one folder, so you should use this option with care.
.\"
.IP "\-src \f2+folder\f3" 10
Specifies the source folder to take messages from.
Normally, messages are refiled from the current folder
into another folder.
However, you can take messages from a different folder
by using the
.B \-src
\*V+folder\*O
option to specify the alternative source folder.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example refiles messages 3 and 5 in the folder \*L+records\*O:
.oS
% \f(CBrefile 3 5 +records\f(CW
.oE
.PP
The next example files the current message into two folders:
.oS
% \f(CBrefile +jones +map\f(CW
.oE
.PP
The next example takes message 13 in the current folder
and refiles it in the \*L+test\*O folder.
The message remains in the current folder
as well as appearing in the \*L+test\*O folder.
.oS
% \f(CBrefile \-link 13 +test\f(CW
.oE
.PP
The next example takes a message from the folder \*L+test\*O when
it is not the current folder,
and places it in the folder \*L+outbox\*O:
.oS
% \f(CBrefile 3 \-src +test +outbox\f(CW
.oE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine your Mail directory
Folder-Protect:+To set protections when creating a new folder
rmmproc:+Program to delete the message
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L$HOME/.mh_profile\*O
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lfolder\*O(1), \*Lmark\*O(1), \*Lmh_profile\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
