.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: repl.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:38:40 $
.\"
.TH repl 1
.SH NAME
repl \- reply to a message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B repl
[
\*Vmsg\*O
] [
\*V+folders\*O
] [
\*Voptions\*O
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.\" .SH Arguments
.\" .IP \f2msg\f1 10
.\" The message that
.\" \*Lrepl\*O
.\" replies to.
.\" The argument is the number of the message.
.\" If you do not supply a
.\" .I msg
.\" argument,
.\" \*Lrepl\*O
.\" takes the current message.
.\"
.\" .IP \f2+folder\f1 10
.\" The folder from which
.\" \*Lrepl\*O
.\" takes the message to reply to.
.\" The folder name must be preceded by a plus sign (+).
.\" If you do not supply a
.\" .I +folder
.\" argument,
.\" \*Lrepl\*O
.\" takes the message from the current folder.
.\" You can supply both a
.\" .I msg
.\" and a
.\" .I +folder
.\" argument.
.\" If you specify a
.\" .I +folder
.\" argument but no message number,
.\" \*Lrepl\*O
.\" replies to the current message in the specified folder.
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "repl command"
.iX "messages" "replying to"
Use \*Lrepl\*O to reply to a message that you have received.
.\"
.\" ***Info from old Arguments section
.\"
.PP
By default, \*Lrepl\*O replies to the current message in the current folder.
If you want to reply to another message,
you can specify a message number as the
\*Vmsg\*O
argument.
You can also specify a message in another folder
by supplying a
\*V+folder\*O
argument.
You can supply both a
\*Vmsg\*O
and a
\*V+folder \*O
argument.
If you specify a folder without giving a message number, \*Lrepl\*O will
reply to the current message in the named folder.
.\"
.\" ***End of Arguments stuff
.\"
.PP
When you reply to a message, \*Lrepl\*O automatically
fills in the mail header for you,
taking the information it needs from the mail header
of the original message.
The following example shows how \*Lrepl\*O constructs
the mail header for the return message:
.oS
To: <Reply\-To> or <From> or <sender>
cc: <cc>, <To>, and yourself
Subject: Re: <Subject>
In\-reply\-to: Your message of <Date>.
<Message\-Id>
.\" X\-mts: <X-mts>
.oE
Field names enclosed in angle brackets (<\ >) indicate the
contents of the named field from the original message.
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.PP
When you reply to a message, \*Lrepl\*O takes the value from the
\*LX-mts:\*O
field of the original message and places it in the
\*LX-mts:\*O
field of your draft reply.
The two legal entries are: \*Lx400\*O,
for mail sent to X.400 users; and \*Lsmtp\*O,
for mail sent to non-X.400 users.
The default is to assume non-X.400 transport.
If there is no
\*LX-mts:\*O
field on the original message, \*Lrepl\*O generates the field on your
draft reply, but leaves it blank.
Since all incoming X.400 mail has the
\*LX-mts: x400\*O
field added automatically, any incoming mail
which does not have an
\*LX-mts:\*O
field must have been sent by a non-X.400 user.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.PP
Normally, \*Lrepl\*O replies to the original sender, and sends carbon copies
to all the addressees on the original message.
.\"
.\" **********************************
.\" COMMENTED OUT - the -nocc me stuff
.ig
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\FP
.sp 6p
.RS 5
If you wish to reply to X.400 messages, you MUST
add the following line to your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O:
.oS
repl: -nocc me
.oE
You must not use the
.B "\-cc me"
or
.B "\-cc all"
options.
If you wish to send a copy of an X.400 reply to yourself,
you should edit the header fields to include your X.400 address.
.sp 6p
.RE
..
.\" **********************************
.\"
.PP
You can create a different mail header from the default
and use it every time you reply to mail.
If you create an alternative mail header and store it in the
file \*Lreplcomps\*O in your Mail directory, \*Lrepl\*O will
use it instead of the default header file.
This must be an mhl file; see \*Lmh-format\*O(4) for more information.
.PP
If you do not have a draft folder set up, \*Lrepl\*O creates
your new draft in a file called \*Ldraft\*O in your Mail directory.
This file must be empty before you can create a new draft,
which means that you can only store one draft at a time.
If it is not empty, the mail system will ask you
what you want to do with the existing contents.
The options are:
.TP 10
\*Lquit\*O
Aborts \*Lrepl\*O, leaving the draft intact.
.TP 10
\*Lreplace\*O
Replaces the existing draft with the appropriate message form.
.\" .TP 10
.\" \*Luse\*O
.\" Allows you to edit the existing draft.
.TP 10
\*Llist\*O
Displays the draft message.
.TP 10
\*Lrefile\*O
Refiles the existing draft message in the specified folder,
and provides a new message form for you to complete.
.PP
If you want to be able to have more than one draft at a time,
you can set up a draft folder in your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O. This
allows you to keep as many unsent drafts as space allows,
and still create new messages as you wish.
To do this, make sure that the following line is in your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O:
.oS
Draft-folder: +drafts
.oE
For more information on how to do this, see \*Lmh_profile\*O(4).
.PP
If you set up a draft folder,
all draft messages are created in that folder.
If you decide not to send the draft, by typing \*Lquit\*O at
the \*LWhat now?\*O prompt,
the message is stored in the draft folder.
You can then re-edit the message, or send it at a later date,
by using the \*Lcomp \-use\*O command.
.PP
Note that while in the editor,
the message being replied to is available through a link named \*L@\*O
(assuming the default \*Lwhatnowproc\*O).
In addition, the actual pathname of the message is stored in the
environment variable \*L$editalt\*O,
and the pathname of the folder containing the message is stored in the
environment variable \*L$mhfolder\*O.
If your current working directory is not writable,
the link named \*L@\*O is not available.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\" **************************************
.\" COMMENTED OUT  -nocc me stuff
.ig
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\FP
.sp 6p
.RS 5
If you wish to reply to X.400 mail, you must set up the
.B "\-nocc me"
option in your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O. Note also that you cannot specify the
.B "\-cc me"
or
.B "\-cc all"
options when you are replying to X.400 mail.
If you want to send a copy of an X.400 reply to yourself,
you must edit the header fields of the reply
to include your address.
.sp 6p
.RE
..
.\" ***************************************
.\"
.\"
.\"
.IP \-annotate 10
.PD 0
.IP \-noannotate 10
.PD
Marks out the original message as replied to.
When the message is shown on the listing produced by \*Lscan\*O, it
is marked with a dash (\-).
The following lines are also added to the message:
.oS
Replied:\ date
Replied:\ addrs
.oE
where the address list contains one line for each addressee.
The mail system will annotate the message
only if it is sent immediately.
If the message is not sent immediately,
you can send it later with \*Lcomp \-use\*O, but
the annotations will not take place.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-cc all|to|cc|me" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-nocc all|to|cc|me" 10
.PD
Specifies who will receive copies of the reply.
By default the mail system sends the reply to the sender
of the original message, and copies to all other names in
the \*LTo:\*O and \*Lcc:\*O lines.
You can change this behavior by using the
.B \-cc
option.
This sends copies of the replies only to the specified
names.
There are four values:
.B \-cc\ all
sends copies to all the names on the original message;
.B \-cc\ to
sends copies only to those names in the \*LTo:\*O field;
.B \-cc\ cc
sends copies only to those names in the \*Lcc:\*O field; and
.B \-cc\ me
sends a copy of the reply to yourself.
.IP
There is also a
.B \-nocc
option, which stops copies of the reply
being sent to the named people.
It takes the same values as
.B \-cc .
So, for example,
.B \-nocc\ cc
would stop replies being sent to the names in the
\*Lcc:\*O field of the original message.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-draftfolder\ \f2+folder\fP
.PD 0
.IP \-nodraftfolder
.PD
Specifies the folder in which the draft message is created.
If you do not send the draft, it is stored in this folder.
.IP
This option is usually set up in your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O.
See \*Lmh_profile\*O(4) for more information.
If you have this option set up, you can
override it by using the
.B \-nodraftfolder
option.
.\"
.\"
.ig
.IP "\-draftmessage\ \f2file-name\fP" 10
***I HAVE NO IDEA WHAT THIS OPTION DOES***
..
.\"
.\"
.IP \-editor\ \f2editorname\fP
Specifies the editor you wish to use to write your reply.
The default editor provided is \*Lprompter\*O.
You can specify any legal editor as an alternative.
.IP
You can also set up an editor in your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O
file.
See \*Lmh_profile\*O(4) for more details.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-fcc\ \f2+folder\fP
Specifies a folder to receive copies of your reply.
More than one folder can be named, each preceded by
.B \-fcc .
.\"
.\"
.IP \-filter\ \f2filterfile\fP
Specifies how the original message is formatted in the draft.
By default, the mail system does not include a copy of the
original message in your reply.
If you use the
.B \-filter
\*Vfilterfile\*O
option, the original message may be included in your reply,
and formatted according to the information in the file you name.
.IP
The filter file for \*Lrepl\*O should be a standard form file for \*Lmhl\*O,
as \*Lrepl\*O will invoke \*Lmhl\*O to format the message
being replied to.
There is no default filter file for \*Lrepl\*O; you must create your own.
A filter file that is commonly used is:
.oS
:
body:nocomponent,compwidth=9,offset=9
.oE
This outputs a blank line and then the body of the message
being replied to, indented by one tab-stop.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-form\ \f2formfile\fP
Varies the appearance of the mail header for the reply.
The mail system will construct the header
according to the instructions in the named file.
In order for \*Lrepl\*O to
operate correctly, this must be an mhl file; see \*Lmh-format\*O(4) for
more information.
This option overrides the header set up by the system
file \*L/usr/lib/mh/replcomps\*O.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT - not supported in MH6.7
.ig
.IP \-format
Specifies that standard Internet-style address formatting is used.
Lines beginning with the fields \*LTo:\*O,
\*Lcc:\*O and \*LBcc:\*O
are standardized and duplicate addresses are removed.
.IP
You can use the
.B \-noformat
option to suppress this address formatting, and re-format
the message yourself using the
.B \-width
option.
However, this may result in an address that will not be
accepted by MH or other user agents.
You should only attempt this if you completely understand
the implications of any changes you intend to make.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.IP \-help
Prints out a list of valid options to the command.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-inplace 10
.PD 0
.IP \-noinplace 10
.PD
Causes annotation to be done in place, in order
to preserve links to the annotated message.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-noedit
Calls \*Lrepl\*O without an editor.
This option takes you straight to the
\*LWhat now?\*O
prompt, without allowing you to edit your reply.
This will usually produce a reply with no text
in the body of the message.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-query 10
.PD 0
.IP \-noquery 10
.PD
Allows you to modify the list of recipients.
The mail system asks you whether each of the addresses
that would normally be placed in the
\*LTo:\*O and \*Lcc:\*O fields
should actually receive a copy of the reply.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.IP \-template [\f2editorname\f3]
Helps you to construct valid X.400 addresses in message headers.
If you are sending a reply to X.400 addresses and you want to
add more X.400 addresses to the \*LTo:\*O or \*Lcc:\*O
fields of your reply, you can use the
.B \-template
option to help you construct the X.400 addresses.
For each header field, the \*Ltemplate\*O program
asks you whether you want to create an address in that field;
if you do, it will prompt you for the individual attributes of
an X.400 address.
When you have completed all the new addresses,
exit from the \*Ltemplate\*O utility
and the addresses are entered in the header
fields of your draft reply.
You can then continue to edit the message in the usual way.
As \*Lrepl\*O automatically fills in the \*LTo:\*O
and \*Lcc:\*O
fields of the reply, you
would only use
.B \-template
to send the reply to additional addressees not on the original
message.
You can specify your own choice of editor
to fill in the template by using the
.B \-template
\*Veditorname\*O
option.
The default editor for
.B \-template
is \*Lprompter\*O. If you regularly use the same editor with
.B \-template
you can specify it in the
\*LTemplate\-Editor:\*O
line of your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O.
See \*Ltemplate\*O(1) for more information.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.\"
.IP \-width
Sets the maximum width of the header line.
Lines exceeding this width are split.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-whatnowproc \f2program\fP" 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nowhatnowproc 10
.PD
Specifies an alternative \*Lwhatnow\*O program.
Normally, \*Lrepl\*O invokes the default \*Lwhatnow\*O program.
See \*Lwhatnow\*O(1) for a discussion of available options.
You can specify your own alternative
to the default program using the
.B \-whatnowproc
\*Vprogram\*O
option.
If you do specify your own program, you should not call it \*Lwhatnow\*O.
.IP
You can suppress the \*Lwhatnow\*O program entirely by using the
.B \-nowhatnowproc
option.
However, as the program normally starts the initial edit, the
.B \-nowhatnowproc
option will prevent you from editing the message.
.\"
.\" Specifies the
.\" \*Lwhatnow\*O
.\" program invoked when
.\" \*Lrepl\*O
.\" exits from the editor.
.\" See
.\" \*Lwhatnow\*O(1)
.\" for a discussion of available options.
.\" The invocation of this program can be inhibited by using the
.\" .B \-nowhatnowproc
.\" option.
.\" But as it is actually the
.\" \*Lwhatnow\*O
.\" program which starts the initial edit, specifying
.\" .B \-nowhatnowproc
.\" will prevent any edit from occurring.
.\" .IP
.\" If the
.\" \*Lwhatnowproc\*O
.\" is
.\" \*Lwhatnow\*O,
.\" then
.\" \*Lrepl\*O
.\" uses its own built-in
.\" \*Lwhatnow\*O,
.\" it does not actually run the
.\" \*Lwhatnow\*O
.\" program.
.\" Hence, if you define your own
.\" \*Lwhatnowproc,\*O
.\" do not call it
.\" \*Lwhatnow\*O
.\" since
.\" \*Lrepl\*O
.\" will not run it.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The default settings for this command are:
.IP
\*V+folder\*O
defaults to the current folder
.br
\*Vmsg\*O
defaults to the current message
.br
.B \-cc\ all
.br
.B \-format
.br
.B \-noannotate
.br
.B \-nodraftfolder
.br
.B \-noinplace
.br
.B \-noquery
.br
.B \-width\ 72
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" **********************************
.\" COMMENTED OUT the -nocc me stuff
.ig
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
If you wish to reply to X.400 messages,
you must add the following line to your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O:
.oS
repl: -nocc me
.oE
When you are replying to X.400 messages, you must not use the
.B "\-cc me"
or
.B "\-cc all"
options on the command line.
If you wish to send a copy of an X.400 address to yourself,
you should edit the header fields of the draft message
to include your X.400 address.
.PP
If you are replying to non-X.400 mail,
these restrictions do not apply.
..
.\" ***********************************
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
This example replies to message number 15 in the current folder:
.oS
% \f(CBrepl 15
.oE
.PP
The next example creates your reply in the folder \*L+drafts\*O. If
you decide not to send the draft reply,
the mail system will store it in this folder:
.oS
% \f(CBrepl -draftfolder +drafts
.oE
.PP
The next example places a copy of your reply in your \*L+copylog\*O folder:
.oS
% \f(CBrepl -fcc +copylog
.oE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
lw(1.5i) l.
Path:+To determine your Mail directory
Alternate-Mailboxes:+To determine your mailboxes
Draft-Folder:+To find the default draft folder
Editor:+To override the default editor
Msg-Protect:+To set mode when creating a new message (draft)
fileproc:+Program to refile the message
mhlproc:+Program to filter message being replied to
whatnowproc:+Program to ask the \*(lqWhat now?\*(rq questions
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L/usr/lib/mh/replcomps\*O
The default system reply template.
.TP
\*L<mh-dir>/replcomps\*O
The user-supplied alternative to the standard reply template.
.TP
\*L$HOME/\&.mh_profile\*O
The user profile.
.TP
\*L<mh-dir>/draft\*O
The draft file.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lcomp\*O(1), \*Ldist\*O(1), \*Lforw\*O(1), \*Lprompter\*O(1),
\*Lsend\*O(1),
.\" template(1),
\*Lwhatnow\*O(1), \*Lmh-format\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
