.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rlogin.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/09/11 15:03:28 $
.\" 
...\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" 
.TH rlogin 1
.iX "rlogin command"
.iX "executing commands remotely"
.iX "commands" "executing remotely"
.iX "remote" "command execution"
.iX "login" "remote"
.SH NAME
.PP 
\*Lrlogin\*O - Connects the local host with a remote host
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lrlogin\*O
\*O[\*L-8\*O]
\*O[\*L-e\*Vcharacter\*O]
\*O[\*L-l\*Vuser\*O]
\*Vremote_host\*O
.sE 
.PP
The remote login command (\*Lrlogin\*O) logs into
\*Vremote_host\*O and connects your local terminal to the remote host.
.gL "remote login"
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-8\*O"
Allows an 8-bit data path at all times.  Otherwise, unless the Stop
and Continue key sequences on the remote host are not standard,
\*Lrlogin\*O uses a 7-bit data path and the eighth (high) bit of
each byte is stripped.
.LI "\*L-e\*Vcharacter\*O" 
Changes the Escape character.  Substitute the character you choose
for \*Vcharacter\*O.
.LI "\*L-l\*O \*Vuser\*O" 
Changes the remote username to the one you specify.  Otherwise,
your local username is used at the remote host.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP 
The remote terminal type is the same as that given in the local
\*LTERM\*O environment variable.  The terminal or window size is also the
same, if the remote host supports them, and any changes in size are
transferred.  All echoing takes place at the remote host, so except for
delays, the terminal connection is transparent.  Pressing the
Stop and Continue key sequences stops and starts the flow of information,
and the input and output buffers are flushed on Interrupts.  The
\*Lrlogin\*O command can only be used to connect to systems that are running
the \*Lrlogind\*O daemon.
.PP
On systems that do not support \*Lrlogin\*O,
you can use \*Ltelnet\*O (if supported) as an alternative.
.PP 
If you do not specify the \*L-l\*O flag, the local username is
used at the remote host.  If \*L-l\*O \*Vuser\*O is
specified, the username entered is used at the remote host.  In
either case, the remote host allows access only if one or both of
the following conditions is satisfied:
.ML  
.LI 
The local host is included in the remote host's \*L/etc/hosts\&.equiv\*O
file, the local user is not the superuser, and
the \*L-l\*O \*Vuser\*O flag is not specified.
.LI
The local host and username is included in a \*L$HOME/\&.rhosts\*O file in
the home directory of the remote user account.
.LE 
.PP 
If neither of these conditions is met and a password is defined for
the remote user account, the remote host prompts for a
password.  The remote password file is checked to verify the password
entered, and the login prompt is displayed if the password is not
correct.  Pressing the End-of-File key sequence at the login prompt ends the
remote login attempt.
.PP 
For security reasons, any \*L$HOME/\&.rhosts\*O file must be owned by either
the remote user or the root user and should allow write access only by
the owner.
.PP 
In addition to the preceding conditions, \*Lrlogin\*O also allows access
to the remote host if the remote user account does not have a password
defined.  However, for security reasons, use of a password on all
user accounts is recommended.
.PP 
Unless otherwise modified by the \*L-e\*O flag, the standard Escape
character for disconnecting from the remote host is a ~ (tilde).
The Escape character is only recognized by the remote host if it
occurs at the beginning of a line.  Otherwise,
the Escape character is sent to the remote host as a normal character.
To send the Escape character to the remote host as a normal character
at the beginning of a line, press the Escape character twice.
Pressing the Escape
character and a \& (dot) (for example, ~.)
immediately disconnects the local terminal from the remote host.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
In the following examples, the local host is listed in the
\*L/etc/hosts.equiv\*O file at the remote host:
.AL 3m 
.LI
To log in to a remote host with your local username, enter:
.iS
\*C$\*L rlogin host2
\*CPassword:\*O <\*VEnter password\*O>
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
To log off the remote host and close the connection, enter the
End-of-File key sequence.
.LI
To log in to a remote host with a different username, enter:
.iS
\*C$\*L rlogin host2 -l dale
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
You are prompted to enter your password and then are logged in to
the remote host \*Lhost2\*O with the username \*Ldale\*O.
.LI
To log in to \*Lhost2\*O with the your local
username and change the Escape character to \*L\e\*O (backslash), enter:
.iS
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Added another \e per QAR 5948.
\*C$\*O rlogin host2 -e\e\e
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
\*O\c
.iE
.LE 
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/etc/hosts\&.equiv\*O"
Specifies remote hosts from which users can execute commands on the local
host (provided these users have an account on the local host).
.LI "\*L$HOME/\&.rhosts\*O" 
Specifies remote users who can use a local user account.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lrcp\*O(1), \*Lrsh\*O(1), \*Lrlogind\*O(8), \*Ltelnet\*O(1).
.PP 
Files:  \*Lrhosts\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
