.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rm.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/19 14:22:56 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH rm 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lrm\*O \- Removes (unlinks) files or directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\"Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Made the - flag -- .
.sS
\*Lrm\*O
\*O[\*L-efirR\*O]
\*O[\*L\--\*O]
\*Vfile\*O
\&...
.sE
.\"End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.PP
The \*Lrm\*O command removes the entries for
the specified files from a directory.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-e\*O"
Displays a message after deleting each file.
.LI "\*L-f\*O"
Does not prompt before removing a file that does not have write
permission set, and does not display an error message
if a specified file does not exist. If you specify both \*L-f\*O
and \*L-i\*O when invoking \*Lrm\*O, the flag that is
specified last on the command line takes effect.
.LI "\*L-i\*O"
Prompts you before deleting each file (interactive).  When you use
both \*L-i\*O and \*L-r\*O, \*Lrm\*O also prompts for removing
each file, then the directory. If you specify both \*L-f\*O
and \*L-i\*O with \*Lrm\*O, the last one on the command line takes effect.
.LI "\*L-r\*O"
Permits recursive removal of directories and their contents
(for cases where \*Vfile\*O is a directory).
.LI "\*L-R\*O"
Permits recursive removal of directories and their contents
(for cases where \*Vfile\*O is a directory, same as \*L-r\*O).
.\"Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\"Made the - flag -- .
.LI "\*L--\*O"
.\"End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
Indicates that all arguments following it are
to be treated as filenames.  This allows you to specify filenames
starting with a \- (dash).
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "rm command"
.iX "delete command"
.iX "files" "deleting"
.iX "files" "removing"
.iX "deleting" "files"
.iX "removing" "files"
.PP
If \*Vfile\*O is of the directory type:
.\"The following section seems convoluted and does not work on my
.\"machine. I've rewritten it below. wf.
.\".AL
.\".LI
.\"If you specify neither \*L-R\*O or \*L-r\*O, \*Lrm\*O writes a
.\"diagnostic message to standard error, does nothing further with
.\"\*Vfile\*O, and goes on to any remaining files.
.\".LI
.\"If \*L-f\*O is not specified and either of the following is true,
.\"\*Lrm\*O writes a prompt to standard error and reads a line from 
.\"standard input:
.\".ML
.\".LI
.\"The permissions of \*Vfile\*O do not permit writing and standard input
.\"is a terminal
.\".LI
.\"The \*L-i\*O flag is specified
.\".LE
.\"If the response is affirmative, \*Lrm\*O does nothing further with the
.\"current file and goes on to any remaining files.
.\"(The same actions are taken if \*L-f\*O is specified and \*Vfile\*O is
.\"\*Enot\*O of the directory type.)
.\".LI
.\"For each entry contained in \*Vfile\*O, other than \*L\&.\*O (dot) or
.\"\*L\&.\&.\*O (dot dot) entries, the four steps listed here (1-3) are
.\"taken with the entry as if it were a \*Vfile\*O argument.
.\".LE
.AL
.LI
If you specify neither \*L-R\*O or \*L-r\*O \*O, \*Lrm\*O writes a
diagnostic message to standard error, does nothing more with \*Lfile\*O,
and goes on to any remaining files.
.LI
If you specify \*L-f\*O, \*Lrm\*O does not remove \*Lfile\*O, and
does not print a diagnostic message unless \*Lfile\*O is . (dot) or ..
(dot dot), which it cannot remove.
.LE
.PP
If an entry is the last link to a
file, it is destroyed.  To remove a file, you must have write permission
for its parent directory, but need neither read nor write permission
for the file itself.  If the sticky bit on the directory is set, you
must be the owner of the file or superuser.
.PP
If a file has no write permission and standard input is a
terminal, \*Lrm\*O displays the file permission code and reads
a line from standard input.  If that line begins with \*Ly\*O,
or the locale's equivalent of a \*Ly\*O,
\*Lrm\*O deletes the file.
If the response is anything else, \*Lrm\*O
does nothing to that file and continues with the next specified file.
.PP
The \*LLC_MESSAGES\*O variable determines the locale's equivalent
of \*Ly\*O or \*Ln\*O (for yes/no queries).
.PP
The \*L-i\*O flag causes \*Lrm\*O to prompt and read the standard
input even if the standard input is not a terminal.  In the absence
of \*L-i\*O, however, the prompting is not done when the standard input is
not a terminal.
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To delete a file, enter:
.iS
rm  myfile
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
If there is another link to this file, then the file remains under
that name, but \*Lmyfile\*O is removed.
If \*Lmyfile\*O is the only link, the file itself is deleted.
.LI
To delete a file silently, enter:
.iS
rm  -f  core
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This removes \*Lcore\*O
without asking any questions or displaying any error messages.
This is normally used in shell procedures.  It prevents confusing messages
from being displayed when deleting files that may or may not exist.
.LI
To delete files interactively, enter:
.iS
rm  -i  mydir/*
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
After each filename is displayed, enter the
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Removed 'to' at the beginning of the following line per QAR 5912.
.\" Also added "to remove the file" to make it clearer.
affirmative response to remove the file; press
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
\*L<Return>\*O (or anything other than the affirmative
response) to retain the file.
.LI
To delete a directory tree interactively, enter:
.iS
rm  -ir  manual
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This recursively removes the contents of all subdirectories
of \*Lmanual\*O, then removes \*Lmanual\*O itself,
asking if you want to remove each file and directory.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lln\*O(1), \*Lmv\*O(1), \*Lrmdir\*O(1).
.PP
Functions:  \*Lrmdir\*O(2), \*Lunlink\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
