.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rmdel.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/19 15:38:37 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH rmdel 1
.SH NAME
\*Lrmdel\*O \- Removes a delta from a Source Code Control System (SCCS) file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lrmdel\*O
\*L-r\*VSID\*O
\*Vfile\*O
\&.\&.\&.
|
\*L-\*O
.sE
.PP
The \*Lrmdel\*O command removes the delta specified by
SID from each named SCCS file.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-r\*VSID\*O"
Removes the delta \*VSID\*O from the SCCS file.  This flag is required.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "rmdel command"
.iX "files" "removing SCCS deltas"
.iX "deltas" "removing"
.iX "SCCS" "removing deltas"
.iX "removing" "SCCS deltas"
.PP
You can remove only the most recently created
delta in a branch, or the latest trunk delta if it has no branches.  In
addition, the SID you specify must not be a version currently being
edited for the purpose of making a delta.  To remove a delta, you must
either own the SCCS file and the directory,
or you must be the user who created the delta you want to remove.
.PP
If you specify a directory in place of \*Vfile\*O,
\*Lrmdel\*O performs the requested actions on all SCCS files (those
with filenames that have the \*Ls\&.\*Oprefix).  If you
specify a \*L-\*O (dash) in place of \*Vfile\*O,
\*Lrmdel\*O reads standard input, and interprets each line as the
name of an SCCS file.  The \*Lrmdel\*O command continues to take input until it
reads an End-of-File character.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To remove delta 1.3 from the SCCS file \*Ls.test.c\*O, enter:
.iS
rmdel -r1.3 s.test.c
\*O\c
.iE
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
The \*Lrmdel\*O command returns the following exit values:
.ML
.LI
0	Successful completion
.LI
>0	An error occurred
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Ladmin\*O(1), \*Lcdc\*O(1), \*Lcomb\*O(1), \*Ldelta\*O(1),
\*Lget\*O(1), \*Lprs\*O(1), \*Lrmdel\*O(1), \*Lsact\*O(1), \*Lsccsdiff\*O(1),
\*Lsccshelp\*O(1), \*Lunget\*O(1), \*Lval\*O(1), \*Lwhat\*O(1).
.PP
Files:  \*Lsccsfile\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
