.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rmdir.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/03 17:12:47 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH rmdir 1
.SH NAME
\*Lrmdir\*O \- Removes a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lrmdir\*O
\*Vdirectory\*O
\&...
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Removes all directories in a pathname.  For each \*Vdirectory\*O
argument, the directory entry it names is removed.
.IP
If the \*Vdirectory\*O argument includes more than one pathname
component, effects equivalent to the following command occur:
.iS
rmdir -p $(dirname \*Vdirectory\*O)
.iE
.IP
That is, \*Lrmdir\*O recursively removes each directory in the
pathname.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "rmdir command"
.iX "deleting" "directories"
.iX "directories" "removing"
.iX "directories" "deleting"
.iX "removing" "directories"
.PP
The \*Lrmdir\*O command removes a directory from the
system.  The directory must be empty before you can remove
it, and you must have write permission in its parent directory.
Use the \*Lls -al\*O command to see if a directory is empty.
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.PP
If a directory and a subdirectory of that directory are specified in a
single invocation of \*Lrmdir\*O, the subdirectory must be specified
before the parent directory so that the parent directory will be empty
when \*Lrmdir\*O tries to remove it.
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To empty and remove a directory, enter:
.iS
rm mydir/* mydir/.*
rmdir mydir
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This removes the contents of \*Lmydir\*O, then removes the
empty directory. The \*Lrm\*O command displays an error
.iX "rm command"
message about trying to remove the directories \&. (dot)
and \&.\&. (dot dot), and then \*Lrmdir\*O removes them.
.IP
Note that \*Lrm mydir/* mydir/.*\*O first removes
files with names that do not begin with a \*L\&.\*O (dot), then those
with names that do begin with a \*L\&.\*O (dot).  You may
not realize that the directory
contains filenames that begin with a \*L\&.\*O (dot) because the
\*Lls\*O command does not normally list them unless you use the
\*L-a\*O flag to see the files whose names begin with a \*L\&.\*O (dot).
.LI
To remove all of the directories in the pathname \*La/b/c\*O, enter:
.iS
rmdir -p a/b/c
.iE
Use a command like this one if directory \*La\*O in the current
directory is empty except that it contains a directory \*Lb\*O and
\*La/b\*O is empty except that it contains a directory \*Lc\*O.
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lls\*O(1), \*Lrm\*O(1).
.PP
Functions: \*Lrmdir\*O(2), \*Lunlink\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
