.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rmf.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:39:03 $
.\"
.TH rmf 1
.SH NAME
rmf \- remove folder
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B rmf
[
\*V+folder\*O
] [
.B \-help
] [
.B \-[no]interactive
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "rmf command"
.iX "folders" "removing"
The \*Lrmf\*O command removes all of the messages within the current folder,
and then removes the folder itself.
If there are any files within the folder which are not part of MH,
they are not removed, and an error message is displayed.
.PP
You can specify a folder other than the current folder
by using the
\*V+folder\*O
argument.
If you do not specify a folder, and \*Lrmf\*O cannot find the current
folder,\*Lrmf\*O asks you whether you want to delete \*L+inbox\*O instead.
.PP
If the current folder is removed,
it makes \*L+inbox\*O current.
.PP
Note that the \*Lrmf\*O command irreversibly deletes messages
that do not have other links,
so use it with caution.
.PP
If the folder being removed is a sub-folder,
the parent folder becomes the new current folder, and \*Lrmf\*O tells
you that this has happened.
This provides an easy mechanism for selecting a set of messages,
operating on the list, then removing the list and returning to
the current folder from which the list was extracted.
.PP
Using \*Lrmf\*O to delete a read-only folder deletes the private sequence
and current message information from the \*L\&.mh_profile\*O file,
without affecting the folder itself.
If you have sub-folders within a folder,
you must delete all the sub-folders
before you can delete the folder itself.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP \-help 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.IP \-interactive 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nointeractive 10
.PD
Asks for confirmation before deleting a folder.
By default, \*Lrmf\*O deletes a folder and its messages
without asking for confirmation.
If you specify the
.B \-interactive
option, \*Lrmf\*O asks if you are sure before deleting the folder.
You are advised to use this option, since when \*Lrmf\*O deletes
a folder its contents are lost irretrievably.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
This example shows how \*Lrmf\*O asks for confirmation when the
.B \-interactive
option is used:
.oS
% \f(CBrmf -interactive +test\f(CW
Remove folder "test"? \f(CBy\f(CW
.oE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine the user's Mail directory
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L$HOME/\&.mh_profile\*O
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lrmm\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
