.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rmm.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:39:12 $
.\"
.TH rmm 1
.SH NAME
rmm \- remove messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B rmm
[
\*V+folder\*O
] [
\*Vmsgs\*O
] [
.B \-help
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "rmm command"
The \*Lrmm\*O command deletes the current message from the current folder.
.PP
You can specify messages and folders other than the current ones by using the
\*V+folder\*O
and
\*Vmsgs\*O
arguments.
.PP
The current message is not changed by \*Lrmm\*O, so a \*Lnext\*O will
advance to the next message in the folder as expected.
.PP
If you have defined a component \*Lrmmproc:\*O in
your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O file, then instead of simply renaming
the message file, \*Lrmm\*O will call the named program to delete the file.
.PP
The \*Lrmm\*O command removes messages by renaming the message files
with a preceding comma.
Many sites consider files that start with a
comma to be a temporary backup, and arrange for \*Lcron\*O(8) to
remove such files once a day.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP \-help 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.PP
The default settings for this command are:
.IP
\*V+folder\*O
defaults to the current folder
.br
\*Vmsgs\*O
defaults to the current message
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
lw(1.5i) l.
Path:+To determine your Mail directory
rmmproc:+Program to delete the message
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L$HOME/.mh_profile\*O
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lrmf\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
