.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: runcat.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.3.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/06/09 17:15:53 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.TH runcat 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lruncat\*O \- Pipes message text source from mkcatdefs to gencat
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lruncat\*O
\*Vcatalog_name\*O
\*Vsource_file\*O
\*O[\*Vcatalogfile\*O]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "runcat command"
.iX "creating" "message source file"
.iX "files" "message source"
.iX "message source file"
The \*Lruncat\*O command invokes the \*Lmkcatdefs\*O command
and pipes the message catalog source data (the output from \*Lmkcatdefs\*O) to
the \*Lgencat\*O program.
.PP
The file \*Vsource_file\*O contains the message text with your symbolic
identifiers. The \*Lmkcatdefs\*O program uses the
\*Vcatalog_name\*O argument to
generate the name of the symbolic definition file by adding \*L_msg.h\*O to the
end of the \*Vcatalog_name\*O value, and to generate the symbolic name for the
catalog file by adding \*LMF_\*O to the beginning of the \*Vcatalog_name\*O
value. The definition file must be included in your application program. The
symbolic name for the catalog file can be used in the library functions
(such as the \*Lcatopen\*O function).
.PP
The \*Vcatalogfile\*O argument is the name of the catalog file created by the
\*Lgencat\*O command. If you do not specify this argument, the \*Lgencat\*O
command names the catalog file by adding \*L.cat\*O to the end of the
\*Vcatalog_name\*O value. This filename can also be
used in the \*Lcatopen\*O library function.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To generate a catalog named \*Ltest.cat\*O from the message
source file \*Ltest.msg\*O, enter:
.PP
.iS
runcat test test.msg
.iE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Ldspcat\*O(1), \*Ldspmsg\*O(1), \*Lgencat\*O(1),
\*Lmkcatdefs\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
