.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rup.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/09 19:36:06 $
.\"
.TH rup 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lrup\*O \- Show host status of remote machines (RPC version)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lrup\*O [ \*L-hlt\*O ]
.sE
.PP
.sS
\*Lrup\*O [ \*vhost\*O ...  ]
.sE
.\" This section is not necessary.
.\"AVAILABILITY
.\"     This command is available with the Networking software  ins-
.\"     tallation option.  Refer to Solaris 2.1 System Configuration
.\"     and Installation Guide for information  on  how  to  install
.\"     optional software.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-h\*O"
Sort the display alphabetically by host name.
.LI "\*L-l\*O"
Sort the display by load average.
.LI "\*L-t\*O"
Sort the display by up time.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "rup"
The \*Lrup\*O command displays the current time, amount of time since
the system was last started, number of users logged in, and th load
averages for remote machines.  It broadcasts on the local network, and displays the
responses it receives.
.PP
Normally, the listing is in the order in which responses are
received, but this order can be changed by specifying one of
the options listed in the Flags section.
When \*Vhost\*O arguments are given, rather than broadcasting, the \*Lrup\*O
command queries the list of specified hosts.
.PP
A remote host only responds if it is running the \*Lrstatd\*O
daemon, which is normally started from the \*Linetd\*O daemon.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Broadcasting does not work through gateways.
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\".VL 4m
.\".LI "\*L/etc/servers\*O"
.\"To be supplied. I didn't find a manpage for servers.
.\".LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands: \*Lruptime\*O(1)
.PP
Daemons: \*Linetd\*O(8), \*Lrpc.statd\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
