.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ruptime.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/30 17:58:53 $
.\" 
...\"
...\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
...\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail
...\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
...\"
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
.TH ruptime 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lruptime\*O - Displays the status of each host on a network
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Adding Digital only version of the SYNOPSIS from an Environment Note.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.sS
\*Lruptime\*O
\*O[\*L-ar\*O]
\*O[\*L-l\*O | \*L-t\*O | \*L-u\*O]
.sp
\*Lruptime\*O
\*O[\*L-ar\*O]
\*O[\*L-l\*O | \*L-t\*O | \*L-u\*O] [\*Vmachinename\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lruptime\*O command displays the status of each host on a
local network that is running the \*Lrwhod\*O daemon.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Added description for the machinename parameter from the Env. Note.
.PP
If \*Vmachinename\*O is specified, only the status of that
machine is displayed.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Includes all users.  Without this flag, users
whose sessions are idle an hour or more are not included.
.LI "\*L-l\*O"
Sorts the list by the load average
over 5-, 10-, and 15-minute
intervals prior to a server's transmission.  The load averages are
multiplied by 10 to represent the value in decimal format.
.LI "\*L-r\*O"
Reverses the sort order.
.LI "\*L-t\*O"
Sorts the list by the length of uptime.
.LI "\*L-u\*O"
Sorts the list by the number of users.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ruptime command"
.iX "displaying" "status of network hosts"
.iX "networks" "displaying host status"
.iX "hosts" "displaying status"
.iX "rwhod daemon"
.iX "daemons" "rwhod"
The status lines are
sorted by hostname unless the \*L-l\*O, \*L-t\*O, or
\*L-u\*O flag is indicated. The status information is provided in
packets broadcast once every 3 minutes by each network host running
\*Lrwhod\*O.
Any activity (such as the power
to a host being turned on or off) that takes
place between broadcasts is not reflected until the next broadcast.
Hosts for which no status information is received for 11
minutes are reported as down.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To get a status report on the hosts on the local
network, enter:
.iS
\*C$\*L ruptime
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
Information similar to the following is displayed:
.oS
host1	up	5:15,		4 users,  load 0.09, 0.04, 0.04
host2	up	7:45,		3 users,  load 0.08, 0.07, 0.04
host3	up	2:28,		0 users,  load 0.01, 0.02, 0.03
host4	up	3+01:44,	1 user,   load 0.01, 0.02, 0.03
host7	up	7:43,		1 user,   load 0.06, 0.12, 0.11
\*O\c
.oE
.IP
(Output may be formatted differently on your system.)
.LI
To get a status report sorted by load average, enter:
.iS
\*C$\*L ruptime -l
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
Information similar to the following is displayed:
.oS
host2	up	7:45,		3 users,  load 0.08, 0.07, 0.04
host1	up	5:18,		4 users,  load 0.07, 0.07, 0.04
host7	up	7:43,		1 user,   load 0.06, 0.12, 0.11
host3	up	2:28,		0 users,  load 0.01, 0.02, 0.03
host4	up	3+01:44,	1 user,   load 0.01, 0.02, 0.03
\*O\c
.oE
.IP
(Output may be formatted differently on your system.)
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/var/rwho/whod.*\*O"
Indicates data files received from remote \*Lrwhod\*O daemons.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lrwho\*O(1), \*Lrwhod\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
