.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rusers.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/06 17:38:15 $
.\"
.TH rusers 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lrusers\*O \- Display a list of users who are logged in to a remote machine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lrusers\*O [ \*L-ahilu\*O ] \*Vhost\*O ...
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Give a report for a  machine  even  if  no  users  are
logged in.
.LI "\*L-h\*O"
Sort alphabetically by host name.
.LI "\*L-i\*O"
Sort by idle time.
.LI "\*L-l\*O"
Give a longer listing in the style of \*Lwho\*O(1).
.LI "\*L-u\*O"
Sort by number of users.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "rusers command"
The \*Lrusers\*O command displays information about users and processes
running on remote machines.  The listing is in the order in which
responses are received, but this order can be changed by
specifying one of the options listed in the FLAGS section.
.PP
By default the \*Lrusers\*O command prints the names of the users logged
in.   When the \*L-l\*O flag is given, additional information is
printed for each user, as follows:
.oS
\*Vuserid hostname:terminal login date login time idle time login host\*O
.oE
If \*Vhostname\*O and \*Vlogin host\*O are the  same  value,
the \*Vlogin host\*O field is not displayed.  Likewise,
if \*Vhostname\*O is not idle, the \*Vidle time\*O is not displayed.
A remote host only responds if it is running the \*Lrusersd\*O
daemon, which may be started from the \*Linetd\*O daemon or
the \*Llisten\*O function.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands: \*Lwho\*O(1), \*Linetd\*O(8)
.PP
Functions: \*Llisten\*O(2)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
