.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rwall.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/06 17:18:35 $
.\"
.TH rwall 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lrwall\*O \- Write to all users over a network
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/sbin/rwall \*Vhostname\*O ...
\*L/usr/sbin/rwall -n \*Vnetgroup\*O ...
\*L/usr/sbin/rwall -h \*Vhostname \*L-n \*Vnetgroup\*O
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-n \*Vnetgroup\*O"
Send the broadcast message to the specified network groups.
.LI "\*L-h \*Vhostname\*O"
Specify the hostname, the name of the host.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "rwall"
The \*Lrwall\*O command reads a message from standard input until end-of-file.
It then sends the following message to all users logged in on the
specified host machines, preceded by the line:
.oS
.sp
Broadcast Message ...
.sp
.oE
With the \*L-n\*O flag, it sends to the specified network groups.
.PP
Note, the timeout is fairly short to allow transmission to a large
group of machines (some of which may be down) in a reasonable
amount of time.  Thus the message may not get through
to a heavily loaded machine.
.PP
A remote host only responds if it is running the \*Lrwalld\*O
daemon, which is normally started up from \*Linetd\*O(8).
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Linetd\*O(8), \*Lrwalld\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
