.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rwho.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/30 18:01:41 $
.\" 
...\"
...\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
...\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail
...\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
...\"
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
.TH rwho 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lrwho\*O \- Shows which users are logged in to hosts on the local network.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Added additional syntax for users.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.sS
\*Lrwho\*O
\*O[\*L\-a\*O]
.sp
\*Lrwho\*O
\*O[\*L\-a\*O] [\*Vusers\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-a\*O"
Includes all users.  Without this flag, users
whose sessions are idle an hour or more are not included in the report.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "rwho command"
.iX "displaying" "logged-in users"
.iX "networks" "displaying logged-in users"
.iX "hosts" "displaying logged-in users"
.iX "login" "displaying user information"
.iX "users" "displaying login information"
.iX "rwhod daemon"
The \*Lrwho\*O command displays the username, hostname,
and start date and time of each session for everyone on
the local network who is currently logged in to a host running the
\*Lrwhod\*O daemon.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Added description of the users parameter.
.PP
If one or more user names are specified, only the status
of those users whose names are listed appears on the screen.
.\" End Digital-specific information
If a user has not typed anything for at least 3
minutes, \*Lrwho\*O reports the idle time as a number of minutes in
the last column.  After an hour of inactivity, a user is not included
unless the \*L\-a\*O flag is specified.
Because this command displays a lot of output, use
this command with caution if the local network
has a large number of users.
.PP
Status information is broadcast once every
3 minutes by each network host running the \*Lrwhod\*O daemon.
Any activity (such as a user logging on or off) that takes
place between broadcasts is not reflected until the next broadcast.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To get a report of all users currently logged into hosts on the local
network, enter:
.iS
\*C$\*L rwho
.iE
.oS
bob             host2:pts5              Nov 17 06:30 :20
bob             host7:console           Nov 17 06:25 :25
franz           host1:pts0              Nov 17 11:20 :51
franz           host1:pts8              Nov 16 15:33 :42
franz           host4:console           Nov 17 16:32
pietro          host1:console           Nov 17 13:14 :31
pietro          host1:pts7              Nov 17 13:15 :47
server          host2:console           Nov 17 06:58 :20
luis            host2:pts6              Nov 17 09:22
.oE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/var/rwho/whod.*\*O"
Indicates data files received from remote \*Lrwhod\*O daemons.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lruptime\*O(1), \*Lrwhod\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
