.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sact.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/19 11:20:20 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH sact 1
.SH NAME
\*Lsact\*O \- Displays current Source Code Control System (SCCS) file editing status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lsact\*O
\*Vfile\*O
\&.\&.\&.
|
\*L-\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "sact command"
.iX "displaying" "SCCS editing status"
.iX "SCCS" "displaying file editing status"
.iX "status" "SCCS file editing"
.iX "files" "SCCS"
.PP
The \*Lsact\*O command reads SCCS files and writes the contents, if any,
of the p-file associated with \*Vfile\*O to standard output (see
the \*Lget\*O command for information about the contents of the p-file).
If a \*L-\*O (dash) is specified for \*Vfile\*O,
\*Lsact\*O reads standard input, and interprets each line as the
name of an SCCS file.  If \*Vfile\*O is a directory,
\*Lsact\*O performs its actions on all SCCS files.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Ladmin\*O(1), \*Lcdc\*O(1), \*Lcomb\*O(1), \*Ldelta\*O(1),
\*Lget\*O(1), \*Lprs\*O(1), \*Lrmdel\*O(1), \*Lsccsdiff\*O(1),
\*Lsccshelp\*O(1), \*Lunget\*O(1), \*Lval\*O(1), \*Lwhat\*O(1).
.PP
Files:  \*Lsccsfile\*O(4).
.PP
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
