.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: scan.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:39:42 $
.\"
.TH scan 1
.SH NAME
scan \- produce a one-line-per-message scan listing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B scan
[
\*V+folder\*O
] [
\*Vmsgs\*O
] [
\*Voptions\*O
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "scan command"
.PP
The \*Lscan\*O command produces a one-line-per-message listing
of the messages in the current folder.
.PP
You can scan a folder other than the current folder by using the
\*V+folder\*O
argument.
You can use the
\*Vmsgs\*O
argument to produce a scan listing of a number of messages
or a range of messages in the specified folder.
You can also use \*Lscan\*O in conjunction with a message sequence
defined by \*Lmark\*O or \*Lpick\*O. See \*Lmark\*O(1) for
more information on sequences.
.PP
Each \*Lscan\*O line contains the message number, the date,
the \*LFrom:\*O field, the \*LSubject:\*O field,
and, if room allows, some of the body of the message.
The current message is marked with a plus sign (\*L+\*O).
.PP
The \*Lscan\*O command actually reads each of the specified messages
and parses them to extract the desired fields.
If format errors are found in any of the messages during
parsing, \*Lscan\*O produces appropriate error messages.
.PP
Because MH has been configured with the BERK option, \*Lscan\*O has
two additional options:
.B \-reverse
and
.BR \-noreverse .
In addition, \*Lscan\*O updates the MH context prior to starting the listing,
so interrupting a long \*Lscan\*O listing preserves the new context.
The default configuration file that is
supplied with MH has the BERK option enabled.
.PP
If \*Lscan\*O encounters a message without a \*LDate:\*O field,
the date is filled in with the last write date of the message,
and an asterisk (\*L*\*O) is appended.
This is useful for identifying unsent message drafts.
Unsent drafts are not usually allowed to contain a \*LDate:\*O field,
and are consequently marked with an asterisk in \*Lscan\*O listings.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP "\-clear" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noclear" 10
.PD
Directs \*Lscan\*O to clear the screen.
If the
.B \-clear
switch is used and the output of \*Lscan\*O is directed to a terminal,
then \*Lscan\*O consults the \*L$TERM\*O and \*L$TERMCAP\*O
environmental variables to determine your terminal type
in order to find out how to clear the screen prior to exiting.
If the
.B \-clear
switch is used and the output of \*Lscan\*O is not
directed to a terminal, then \*Lscan\*O sends a formfeed prior to exiting.
.\"
.IP "\-form \f2formatfile\f3" 10
Re-formats the output of \*Lscan\*O according to the
instructions in the named file.
The named
\*Vformatfile\*O
must be in \*Lmh-format\*O style;
see \*Lmh-format\*O(4) for more details.
.\"
.IP "\-format \f2string\f3" 10
Re-formats the output of \*Lscan\*O according to the
instructions in the string given.
The string must be in \*Lmh-format\*O style;
see \*Lmh-format\*O(4) for more details.
You must place the
\*Vstring\*O
argument to this command in double quotes (").
.\"
.IP "\-header" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noheader" 10
.PD
Produces a header line prior to the \*Lscan\*O listing.
The header line displays the name of the folder
and the date and time.
This can be suppressed using the
.B \-noheader
option.
.\"
.IP "\-help" 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.IP "\-reverse" 10
.PD 0
.IP "\-noreverse" 10
.PD
Lists the output from \*Lscan\*O in reverse order,
from the highest message number
to the lowest.
The
.B \-noreverse
option lists messages in the conventional way,
from lowest to highest numbers.
The
.B \-noreverse
option is the default.
.\"
.IP "\-width \f2columns\f3" 10
Specifies the width of your screen, in columns.
.\"
.PP
The defaults for this command are as follows:
.IP
\*V+folder\*O
defaults to the current folder
.br
\*Vmsgs\*O
defaults to all
.br
.\" ***Commented out
.ig
.B \-format
defaults to \*L***???***\*O
.br
(***WHAT IS THE DEFAULT FORMAT FILE FOR scan???***)
.br
..
.\" ***End of comments
.B \-noheader
.br
.B \-width
defaults to the width of the terminal
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example produces a listing
of messages 11 through 15 in the folder \*L+inbox :\*O
.oS
% \f(CBscan +inbox 11-15\f(CW
  11  18/01 ralph              Project Plan Meeting Monday<<This
  12 -21/01 johnson            squash<<Thought i might postpone
  13  21/01 smith@ultrixhost   support from US during conversion
  14  21/01 jjones@subone.dne  new forum for discussion of mail
  15+ 21/01 calvin@hobbes.uuc  Re: new forum for discussion of m
.oE
In this listing, the plus sign (\*L+\*O)
on message 15 indicates that it is the current message.
The hyphen (\*L-\*O) on message 12 indicates that you
have replied to the message.
It is produced by the
.B \-annotate
option to \*Lrepl\*O; see \*Lrepl\*O(1) for more information.
If there is sufficient room left on the line after the
subject, \*Lscan\*O fills the line with text from
the body, preceded by \*L<<\*O,
and terminated by \*L>>\*O if the body is sufficiently short.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
lw(1.5i) l.
Path:+To determine your Mail directory
Alternate-Mailboxes:+To determine your mailboxes
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L$HOME/.mh_profile\*O
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
inc(1), mark(1), pick(1), show(1), mh-format(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
