.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sccsdiff.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/14 13:31:28 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH sccsdiff 1
.SH NAME
\*Lsccsdiff\*O \- Compares two versions of a Source Code Control System (SCCS) file
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lsccsdiff\*O
\*L-r\*VSID1\*O
\*L-r\*VSID2\*O
\*O[\*L-p\*O]
\*O[\*L-s\*Vnumber\*O]
\*Vfile\*O
\&.\&.\&.
.sE 
.PP
The \*Lsccsdiff\*O command reads two versions of an SCCS
file, compares them, and writes to standard output the differences
between the two versions.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Pipes the output through \*Lpr\*O.
.LI "\*L-r\*VSID1\*O" 
Specifies \*VSID1\*O as one delta of the SCCS
file for \*Lsccsdiff\*O to compare.
.LI "\*L-r\*VSID2\*O" 
Specifies \*VSID2\*O as the other delta of the SCCS
file for \*Lsccsdiff\*O to compare.
.LI "\*L-s\*Vnumber\*O" 
Specifies the file segment size for \*Lbdiff\*O to
pass to \*Ldiff\*O.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "sccsdiff command"
.iX "comparing" "SCCS files"
.iX "SCCS" "comparing files"
.iX "files" "comparing SCCS versions"
.iX "versions" "SCCS files"
.PP 
Any number of SCCS files can be specified,
but the same arguments apply to all files.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
To display the difference between versions 1.1 and 1.2 of SCCS file
\*Ls.test.c\*O, enter:
.iS
sccsdiff -r1.1 -r1.2 s.test.c
\*O\c
.iE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Ladmin\*O(1), \*Lbdiff\*O(1), \*Lcdc\*O(1), \*Lcomb\*O(1),
\*Ldelta\*O(1), \*Lget\*O(1), \*Lpr\*O(1), \*Lprs\*O(1), \*Lrmdel\*O(1),
\*Lsact\*O(1), \*Lsccshelp\*O(1), \*Lunget\*O(1), \*Lval\*O(1),
\*Lwhat\*O(1).
.PP 
Files:  \*Lsccsfile\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
