.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sccshelp.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/14 13:31:48 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH sccshelp 1
.SH NAME
\*Lsccshelp\*O \- Provides information about a Source Code Control System (SCCS) message or command
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lsccshelp\*O
\*O[\*Verror_code\*O]
\*O[\*Vsccs_command\*O]
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "sccshelp command"
.iX "SCCS" "displaying information"
.iX "messages" "SCCS"
.iX "commands" "SCCS"
.iX "displaying" "SCCS information"
.PP 
The \*Lsccshelp\*O command displays information about
the use of a specified SCCS command or about messages
generated while using the commands.
Each message has an associated error code, which can be
supplied as an argument to the \*Lsccshelp\*O command.
.PP 
You can supply zero or more arguments. If you do
not supply a argument, \*Lsccshelp\*O prompts for one.
You can include any of the SCCS commands as arguments to \*Lsccshelp\*O.
.PP 
The \*Verror_code\*O argument specifies the code, consisting of numbers
and letters, that appears at the end of a message.
For example, in the following message, the error code is \*Lcm7\*O:
.oS
There are no SCCS identification keywords in the file. (cm7)
\*O\c
.oE
.SS Compatibility Notes
The SCCS \*Lhelp\*O command was changed to \*Lsccshelp\*O;
the \*Lhelp\*O command now provides information about the operating system.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
To get \*Lsccshelp\*O on \*Lrmdel\*O and two error codes, enter:
.iS
sccshelp rmdel gee ad3
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The \*Lsccshelp\*O command displays:
.oS
rmdel:
usage:	rmdel -rSID {file ... | Directory | -}
Removes a Delta from a Source Code Control System File.
The header flag you specified is not recognized.
The header flag you supplied with the -d or -f flag is not correct.
Choose a valid header flag.
\*O\c
.oE
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 14m
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/sccshelp\*O"
Directory containing files of message text.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Ladmin\*O(1), \*Lcdc\*O(1), \*Lcomb\*O(1), \*Ldelta\*O(1),
\*Lget\*O(1), \*Lprs\*O(1), \*Lrmdel\*O(1), \*Lsact\*O(1), \*Lsccsdiff\*O(1),
\*Lunget\*O(1), \*Lval\*O(1), \*Lwhat\*O(1).
.PP 
Files:  \*Lsccsfile\*O(4).
.PP 
.\" "Controlling File Revisions with SCCS" in the %\&%\&NOMAP_DNOProgEnvGde_DNOProgEnvSuppl%\&%\&.
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
