.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sccs.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/10/20 19:31:44 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
.TH sccs 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsccs\*O - Administration program for Source Code Control System (SCCS) commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "sccs command"
.iX "commands" "SCCS"
.sS
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*Lsccs\*O
\*O[\*L\(hyr\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyd\ \*Vpathname\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyp\ \*Vpathname\*O]
\*Vcommand\*O
\*O[\*Vflags\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O\ \&...]
.in -.5i
.sE
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.PP
The \*Lsccs\*O command is an administration program that incorporates
the set of SCCS commands into the Operating System.
.SH "FLAGS"
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-d\*O[\*Vpathname\*O]"
Specifies a root directory for the SCCS
files.  The default is the current directory. The \*Vpathname\*O
argument is prepended to the entire pathname of a file. This flag takes precedence over the
\*LPROJECTDIR\*O variable.
.LI "\*L-p\*Vpathname\*O"
Specifies a pathname for the SCCS files. The default
is the SCCS directory.  The \*Vpathname\*O argument is inserted before
the final component of the pathname.  All flags specified after
\*Vcommand\*O are passed
to that command during execution.  (For a description of command flags,
see the appropriate command description.)  For example, the command
\*Lsccs -d/x -py get a/b\*O converts to \*Lget /x/a/y/s.b\*O.
This can be used to create aliases.  For example, the command
\*Lalias syssccs sccs -d/usr/abc/sccs\*O
makes \*Lsyssccs\*O an alias that can be used in commands like
\*Lsyssccs get cmd/who.c\*O.
.IP
If the \*LPROJECTDIR\*O environment variable is set, its value is used
to determine the \*L-d\*O flag value. If \*LPROJECTDIR\*O begins with
a / (slash), the value is used directly; otherwise, the home directory
of a user of that name is examined for a subdirectory named \*Lsrc\*O or
\*Lsource\*O.  If found, that subdirectory is used.  Certain commands,
such as the \*Ladmin\*O command, cannot be
run using the \*Lset user id\*O command, as
this would allow anyone to change
the authorizations.  Such commands are always run as the real user.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" No -r option - runs as real user all the time.
.\" .LI "\*L-r\*O" 
.\" Runs the \*Lsccs\*O command as the real user,
.\" rather than as the effective user to which the \*Lsccs\*O command
.\" is set (using the \*Lset user id\*O command).
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "\*L-r\*O"
Runs the \*Lsccs\*O command as the real user,
rather than as the effective user to which the \*Lsccs\*O command
is set.
Certain commands (\*Ladmin\*O, \*Lcheck\*O, \*Lclean\*O, \*Ldiffs\*O,
\*Linfo\*O, \*Lrmdel\*O, \*Lsccsdiff\*O, \*Ltell\*O) cannot be run
set-user-ID by all users, since this would allow anyone to change the
authorizations.  These commands are always run as the real user.
.LE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The \*Lsccs\*O command can be used to assign or reassign file ownership.
.PP
The \*Lsccs\*O command activates a specified command with the
specified flags and arguments.  Each file is placed in a directory
named SCCS and named \*Ls\&.\*Vfilename\*O.
The directory SCCS is assumed to
exist relative to the current directory (unless the \*L-p\*O flag is used).
.PP
Two types of commands can be used in the \*Lsccs\*O command
syntax sentence.  The first type are the 14 \*Lsccs\*O
commands that can be entered at a prompt.  The
second type are called pseudocommands; they can be used
only as part of the \*Lsccs\*O command syntax. There are 12 pseudocommands,
which perform the following actions:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lcheck\*O"
Prints all the files being edited. Returns a nonzero
exit status if a file is being edited.  The \*Lcheck\*O program puts the
nonzero status indicator in an install entry in a makefile to verify
that the SCCS file is complete before installing a version. Nothing is
printed if nothing is being edited.
.IP
\*LFlags:\*O
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-b\*O"
Ignores branches in determining which files are being edited.
.LI "\*L-u\*O [\*Vuser\*O]"
Lists only the files being edited by you or the user named by \*Vuser\*O.
.LE
.LI "\*Lclean\*O"
Removes from the current directory or
the named directory all files
that can be recreated from SCCS files.  Does not
remove files that are in the process of being edited.
.IP
\*LFlag:\*O
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-b\*O"
Ignores branches in determining which files are being
edited.  (Note: branches in the same directory can be lost.)
.LE
.LI "\*Lcreate\*O"
Creates an SCCS file, copying the initial contents
from a file of the same name.  If the file creation is successful,
the original file is renamed with a comma on the front.  It is not
necessary for you to move or remove the original file (as is the case
with the \*Ladmin\*O command).
.IP
\*LFlags:\*O Accepts the same flags as the \*Ladmin\*O command.
.LI "\*Ldelget\*O"
Performs a \*Ldelta\*O command on the named
files and then gets a new version.  The new version of the files has
expanded identification keywords, and cannot be edited.
.IP
\*LFlags:\*O
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-m\*O, \*L-p\*O, \*L-r\*O, \*L-s\*O, \*L-y\*O"
Can be passed to the \*Ldelta\*O command.
.LI "\*L-b\*O, \*L-c\*O, \*L-e\*O, \*L-i\*O, \*L-k\*O, \*L-l\*O, \*L-s\*O, \*L-x\*O"
Can be passed to the \*Lget\*O command.
.LE
.LI "\*Ldeledit\*O"
Equivalent to the \*Ldelget\*O pseudocommand,
except that the \*Lget\*O portion of the sentence includes the \*L-e\*O flag.
The \*Ldeledit\*O option is useful for creating a
checkpoint in your current editing session.
.IP
\*LFlags:\*O
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-m\*O, \*L-p\*O, \*L-r\*O, \*L-s\*O, \*L-y\*O"
Can be passed to the \*Ldelta\*O command.
.LI "\*L-b\*O, \*L-c\*O, \*L-i\*O, \*L-l\*O, \*L-s\*O, \*L-x\*O"
Can be passed to the \*Lget\*O command.
.LE
.LI "\*Ldiffs\*O"
Shows the difference between the current version
of the files you are editing and the versions in SCCS format.
.IP
\*LFlags:\*O
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-r\*O, \*L-c\*O, \*L-i\*O, \*L-x\*O, \*L-t\*O"
Can be passed to the \*Lget\*O command.
.LI "\*L-l\*O, \*L-s\*O, \*L-e\*O, \*L-f\*O, \*L-h\*O, \*L-b\*O"
Can be passed to the system \*Ldiff\*O (not SCCS) command.
.LI "\*L -C\*O"
Can be passed to the system
\*Ldiff\*O (not SCCS) command as a \*L-c\*O flag.
.LE
.LI "\*Ledit\*O"
Equivalent to the \*Lget -e\*O command.
.LI "\*Lenter\*O"
Creates an SCCS file, copying the initial contents from a file of the
same name.  If the file creation is successful, the original
file is renamed with a \*L,\*O (comma) at the beginning of the
old filename.  This pseudocommand is similar to
\*Lcreate\*O, except that \*Lenter\*O does not perform
the equivalent of an SCCS \*Lget\*O command, and retrieves a read-only
version of the newly created file.  This
pseudocommand is useful when you want to use an SCCS \*Ledit\*O
command immediately after creating an SCCS file.
.LI "\*Lfix\*O"
Removes a named delta, but leaves a copy of the delta
with changes intact.  This option is useful for fixing small compilation
errors.  This command does not keep a record of changes made to the file.
The \*L-r\*O must be followed by a \*LSID\*O option flag.
.IP
\*LFlag:\*O
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-r\*O"
Required flag.
.LE
.LI "\*Linfo\*O"
Lists all the files being edited.
.IP
\*LFlags:\*O
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-b\*O"
Ignores branches in determining which files are being edited.
.LI "\*L-u\*O [\*Vuser\*O]"
Lists only the files being edited
by you or the user named by \*Vuser\*O.
.LE
.LI "\*Lprint\*O"
Prints information about named files.
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
This SCCS pseudocommand is equivalent to the SCCS command \*Lprs\*O.
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.LI "\*Ltell\*O"
Lists all the files being edited on standard output, with a newline
after each entry.
.IP
\*LFlags:\*O
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-b\*O"
Ignores branches in determining which files are being edited.
.LI "\*L-u\*O [\*Vuser\*O]"
Lists only the files being edited by you or the user named by \*Vuser\*O.
.LE
.LI "\*Lunedit\*O"
Equivalent to the \*Lunget\*O command.  Note
that any changes made since the \*Lget\*O command was used are lost.
.LE
.\" .SS Japanese Language Support
.\" .PP 
.\" If Japanese Language Support is enabled on your system, this command
.\" is not available.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" No -r option - runs as real user all the time.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
In some other versions of the utility, the command runs with the UID of
a pseudo-user named \*Lsccs\*O.
This difference can create compatibility problems with permissions,
especially in networked environments.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
.AL
.LI
To get a file for editing, edit it, and produce a new delta, enter:
.iS
\*C$\*L sccs get -e file.c
\*C$\*L ex file.c
\*C$\*L sccs delta file.c
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To get a file from another directory, enter:
.iS
sccs -p/usr/abc/sccs get cc.c
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To make a delta of a large number of files in the
current directory, enter:
.iS
sccs delta *.c
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To get a list of files being edited that are not
on branches, enter:
.iS
sccs info -b
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To make a delta of everything being edited by you, enter:
.iS
sccs delta `sccs tell -u`
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
In a makefile, to get source files from an SCCS
file if it does not already exist, enter:
.iS
REL = 1.7
SRCS = <list of source files>
$(SRCS):
	sccs get $(REL) $@
\*O\c
.iE
.LE
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP
Commands: \*Ladmin\*O(1), \*Lcdc\*O(1), \*Lcomb\*O(1), \*Ldelta\*O(1),
\*Lget\*O(1), \*Lprs\*O(1), \*Lrmdel\*O(1), \*Lsact\*O(1), \*Lsccsdiff\*O(1),
\*Lsccshelp\*O(1), \*Lunget\*O(1), \*Lval\*O(1), \*Lwhat\*O(1).
.PP
Files:  \*Lsccsfile\*O(4).
.PP
.EQ
delim off
.EN
