.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: script.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/14 13:32:07 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH script 1
.SH NAME
\*Lscript\*O \- Makes a transcript of terminal session
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lscript\*O
\*O[\*L-a\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O]
.sE 
.PP
The \*Lscript\*O command makes a transcript
of everything printed on your terminal.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Appends the transcript to \*Vfile\*O rather than writing it to \*Vfile\*O.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "script command"
.iX "transcribing" "terminal session"
.iX "terminals" "transcribing sessions"
.PP 
The transcript is written to \*Vfile\*O, or appended to \*Vfile\*O if the
\*L-a\*O flag is given.  If no filename is given,
the transcript is saved in the file \*Ltypescript\*O.
.PP 
The script ends when the forked shell exits.
.PP 
This program is useful when you are using a CRT and want a hard-copy
record of the dialog (for example, a technical writer might create an
example of a working session this way).
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lcat\*O(1), \*Lecho\*O(1), \*Ltee\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
