.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sdiff.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/07/22 13:33:57 $
.\" 
...\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" 
.TH sdiff 1
.iX "sdiff command"
.iX "comparing" "files"
.iX "files" "comparing"
.SH NAME
.PP 
\*Lsdiff\*O - Compares two files and displays the differences in a side-by-side format
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lsdiff\*O
\*O[\*L-l\*O
|
\*L-s\*O]
\*O[\*L-w\*O
\*Vnumber\*O]
\*O[\*L-o\*O
\*Voutput_file\*O]
\*Vfile1 file2\*O
.sE 
.PP
The \*Lsdiff\*O command reads \*Vfile1\*O and
\*Vfile2\*O, uses \*Ldiff\*O to compare them, and writes the
results to standard output in a side-by-side format.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-l\*O"
Displays only the left side when lines are identical.
.LI "\*L-o  \*Voutput_file\*O" 
Creates a third file, \*Voutput_file\*O,
by a controlled interactive
line-by-line merging of \*Vfile1\*O and \*Vfile2\*O.
The following subcommands govern the creation of this file:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Ll\*O" 
Adds the left side to \*Voutput_file\*O.
.LI "\*Lr\*O" 
Adds the right side to \*Voutput_file\*O.
.LI "\*Ls\*O" 
Stops displaying identical lines.
.LI "\*Lv\*O" 
Begins displaying identical lines.
.LI "\*Le l\*O or \*Le <\*O" 
.LI "\*Le r\*O or \*Le >\*O" 
.LI "\*Le b\*O or \*Le |\*O" 
.LI "\*Le\*O" 
Enters \*Led\*O with the left side, the right side,
both sides, or an empty file, respectively.
.PP
Each time you exit from \*Led\*O, \*Lsdiff\*O writes the
resulting edited file to the end of \*Voutput_file\*O.  If you fail to
save the changes before exiting, \*Lsdiff\*O writes the initial
input to \*Voutput_file\*O.
.LI "\*Lq\*O" 
Exits the interactive session.
.LE
.LI "\*L-s\*O" 
Suppresses display of identical lines.
.LI "\*L-w \*Vnumber\*O" 
Sets the width of the output line to \*Vnumber\*O (130 characters by default).
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP 
The \*Lsdiff\*O command
displays each line of the two files with a series of spaces between them
if the lines are identical, a \*L<\*O (left angle bracket) in the field
of spaces if the line only exists in \*Vfile1\*O, a \*L>\*O
(right angle bracket) if the line only exists in \*Vfile2\*O, and a
\*L\(br\*O (vertical bar) for lines that are different.
.PP 
When you specify the \*L-o\*O flag, \*Lsdiff\*O
produces a third file by merging \*Vfile1\*O and \*Vfile2\*O
according to your instructions.
.PP 
Note that the \*Lsdiff\*O command invokes the \*Ldiff -b\*O command
to compare two input files.  The \*L-b\*O flag causes the
\*Ldiff\*O command to ignore trailing spaces, tab characters, and
consider other strings of spaces as equal.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
.AL 3m 
.LI
To print a comparison of two files, enter:
.iS
sdiff  chap1.bak  chap1
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This displays a side-by-side listing that compares each line of
\*Lchap1.bak\*O and \*Lchap1\*O.
.LI
To display only the lines that differ, enter:
.iS
sdiff  -s  -w 80  chap1.bak  chap1
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This displays the differences at the tty.  The
\*L-w 80\*O sets page width to 80 columns.  The
\*L-s\*O flag tells \*Lsdiff\*O not to display lines that are
identical in both files.
.LI
To selectively combine parts of two files, enter:
.iS
sdiff -s  -w 80  -o chap1.combo  chap1.bak  chap1
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This combines \*Lchap1.bak\*O and \*Lchap1\*O into a new
file called \*Lchap1.combo\*O.  For each group of differing lines,
\*Lsdiff\*O asks you which group to keep or whether you want to
edit them using \*Led\*O.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Ldiff\*O(1), \*Led\*O(1)/\*Lred\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
