.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: send.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:39:52 $
.\"
.TH send 1
.SH NAME
send \- send a message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B send
[
\*Voptions \*O
] [
\*Vfile ...\*O
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.\" .SH Arguments
.\" .IP \f2file 10
.\" The file that is sent.
.\" Use this argument to send a named file;
.\" you can send an existing mail message by using the
.\" .B \-draftfolder
.\" and
.\" .B \-draftmessage
.\" options.
.\" If you do specify a named file, it must be formatted as
.\" a legal mail message.
.\" If you do not specify an absolute pathname
.\" (one beginning with / or \&./ or \&.\&./ )
.\" \*Lsend\*O
.\" assumes that the named file is in your Mail directory.
.\" ***END OF COMMENT
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "send command"
Use \*Lsend\*O to send the draft message to the specified recipients.
You normally choose \*Lsend\*O as one of the options from
the \*Lwhatnow\*O program.
However, you can use \*Lsend\*O just like any other MH command.
.PP
If you do not have a draft folder set up,
messages are created in a file called \*Ldraft\*O in your Mail directory.
The draft message remains in the file \*Ldraft\*O until
it is either sent or deleted.
This means that you can only have one draft message at a time.
If you do have a draft folder set up,
or if you have specified one using the
.B \-draftfolder
option, the draft message is created in this folder,
which enables you to store multiple draft messages.
For more information, see \*Lcomp\*O(1).
.PP
The command \*Lsend\*O will normally search for the
draft message in the file \*Ldraft\*O or in your draft folder
and cause it to be delivered to each of the destinations in
the \*LTo:\*O, \*Lcc:\*O, \*LBcc:\*O, and \*LFcc:\*O fields of
the message.  If \*Lsend\*O is redistributing a message, as invoked
from \*Ldist\*O, the corresponding \*LResent\-xxx\*O fields
are examined instead.
The delivery is carried out using \*Lpost\*O(8).
.\"
.\" ***Info from old Arguments section
.PP
If you wish to send a named file instead of an existing
draft message, you can specify the file as the
\*Vfile\*O
argument.
If you do not give an absolute pathname
(one beginning with / or \&./ or \&.\&./ ) \*Lsend\*O assumes that
the named file is in your  directory.
Note that the file must be formatted as a legal mail message.
If you want to send an existing mail message rather than
a named file, you should use the
.B \-draftfolder
or
.B \-draftmessage
option.
.\"
.\" ***End of old Arguments stuff
.\"
.PP
Once the transport system has successfully received the message,
the mail system will rename the file with a leading comma.
This allows it to be retrieved until the next draft message is sent.
If there are errors in the formatting of the message, \*Lsend\*O will
abort and issue an error message.
.PP
If the environment variable \*L$SIGNATURE\*O is set,
then its value is used as your personal name when
constructing the \*LFrom:\*O line of the message.
If this variable is not set, then \*Lsend\*O will
consult the profile entry \*LSignature:\*O
for this information.
.PP
If \*Lsend\*O is redistributing a message
(when invoked by \*Ldist\*O), then
the mail system will prepend \*LResent\-\*O
to each of these fields:
\*LFrom\*O, \*LDate\*O, and \*LMessage\-ID\*O.
If the message already contains a \*LFrom:\*O
field, then the mail system will add a
\*LSender: user@local\*O
field add as well.
.PP
If an \*LFcc:\*O field is encountered,
the mail system copies the message to the specified folder
for the sender in the format in which it appears
to any normal recipients of the message.
That is, it includes the fields appended by the mail system,
and the fields are re-formatted.
The \*LFcc:\*O fields are removed
from all outgoing copies of the message.
.PP
If the message includes a \*LBcc:\*O field,
recipients in this field receive a new copy of the message, which
includes the body text of the original message.
The new message has a minimal set of headers.
The \*LBcc:\*O field does not appear on copies of the message
sent to recipients in the \*LTo:\*O and \*Lcc:\*O fields.
.PP
Prior to sending the message,
the mail system appends
\*LDate:\*O and
\*LFrom:\*O
to the headers in the message, for example:
.oS
Date: Wed, 07 June 89 11:18:00 WET
From: rabb@hostname
.oE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP "\-alias \f2aliasfile\f1" 10
Directs \*Lsend\*O to consult the named files for alias definitions.
More than one file, each  preceded by \f3\-alias\f1,
can be named.
See \*Lmh-alias\*O(4) for more information.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-draft
Specifies that the current draft is the message to be sent.
If you do not give a
\*Vfile\*O
argument, \*Lsend\*O will query whether
the current draft is the file that you intend to send.
You can suppress this question by using this option.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-draftfolder\ \f2+foldername\f1
.PD 0
.IP \-nodraftfolder
.PD
Specifies the draft folder from which the draft message is taken.
\*Lsend\*O will search the specified folder for the draft message
and will deliver it to the specified recipients.
The current message in the named folder is used.
If you wish to use another message, you can use the
.B \-draftmessage
option with \f3\-draftfolder\f1.
If there is no current draft message in the specified folder,
\*Lsend\*O will display an error message.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-draftmessage\ \f2msg\f1
Specifies the draft message to be used.
If you specify a folder with the
.B \-draftfolder
option, the
.B \-draftmessage
option takes the number of a message in that folder.
If you do not specify a folder,
.B \-draftmessage
takes the name of a file.
If you do not give an absolute pathname (one beginning with
/ or \&./ or \&.\&./ ),
.B \-draftmessage
assumes that the file is located in your Mail directory.
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-filter \f2filterfile\f1" 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nofilter 10
.PD
Filters (re-formats) messages sent to blind copy recipients.
Recipients named in the \*LBcc:\*O field usually receive
a new message which includes a copy of a message sent to
the other recipients.
If this option is given, this copy of the message is filtered
according to the instructions in the named file.
The default is \f3\-nofilter\f1.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-format 10
.PD 0
.IP \-noformat 10
.PD
Replaces each of the entries in the \*LTo:\*O
and \*Lcc:\*O fields with standard format entries.
This standard format is designed to be usable by all of the
message handlers on the various systems around the Internet.
If
.B \-noformat
is given, then headers are output exactly as they appear
in the message draft.
The default is \f3\-format\f1.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-forward 10
.PD 0
.IP \-noforward 10
.PD
Forwards a copy of a draft message that cannot be sent
to the sender.
This option can only be used with the
.B \-push
option.
If you have specified
.B \-push
and the draft message cannot be sent, a failure notice
is generated and sent to you.
If you also give this option, a copy of the problem message
is forwarded with the failure notice.
This differs from putting \*Lsend\*O in the background, because the output is
trapped and analyzed by MH.
This is the default behavior.
It can be suppressed by specifying the
.B \-noforward
option.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-help
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-msgid 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nomsgid 10
.PD
Adds a \*LMessage\-ID:\*O field to the message.
.\"
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.ig
.IP \-mts\ \f2mtsname\f1
Specifies whether to send the
draft message to X.400 or non-X.400 users.
The
\*Vmtsname\*O
argument takes one of two forms:
.B \-mts\ x400
sends the draft message over X.400 mail;
.B \-mts\ smtp
sends it over the non-X.400 system.
You can use upper- or lower-case letters, or
a mixture of the two, for these options.
You cannot send a single message to both X.400 and
non-X.400 users simultaneously; you must choose one or the other.
A message sent to X.400 users must contain valid X.400 addresses.
If the draft message contains an entry in the \*LX-mts:\*O
header field, this overrides any
.B \-mts
option in the command line.
If no
.B \-mts
option or \*LX-mts:\*O
field is specified, \*Lsend\*O assumes that the message
is sent over non-X.400 transport.
See \*Lcomp\*O(1) for more information.
..
.\" ***END OF COMMENTS
.\"
.\"
.IP "\-mts smtp"
Specifies the mail system over which mail is sent.
The only value allowed is \f3smtp\f1,
which is the standard mail system.
Additional values are supported only for use with other
mail systems.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-push 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nopush
.PD
Instructs \*Lsend\*O to perform its actions in the background.
If a draft fails to be sent,
a failure notice is generated and sent to the sender
of the problem message.
If you also specify the
.B \-forward
option, the message is forwarded with the failure notice.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-verbose 10
.PD 0
.IP \-noverbose 10
.PD
Informs the user of each step of the sending process,
prior to actual delivery.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-watch 10
.PD 0
.IP \-nowatch 10
.PD
Monitors the delivery of local and network mail.
A large amount of information can be gathered
about each step of the message's entry
into the transport system by specifyiing both this and the
.B \-verbose
option.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-width\ \f2columns\f1
Specifies the length of header lines containing addresses.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.PP
The defaults for the \*Lsend\*O command are:
.IP
\*Vfile\*O
defaults to \*L<mh\-dir>/draft\*O
.br
.B "\-alias /usr/lib/mh/MailAliases"
.br
.B \-nodraftfolder
.br
.B \-nofilter
.br
.B \-format
.br
.B \-forward
.br
.B \-nomsgid
.br
.B "\-mts smtp"
.br
.B \-nopush
.br
.B \-noverbose
.br
.B \-nowatch
.br
.B "\-width 72"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
For this version, the
.B \-mts
option only supports the value \f3smtp\f1.
Additional values are supported for use only with
other mail systems.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine the user's MH directory
Draft-Folder:+To determine the default draft folder
Signature:+To determine the user's mail signature
mailproc:+Program to post failure notices
postproc:+Program to post the message
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L$HOME/\&.mh_profile\*O
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lcomp\*O(1), \*Ldist\*O(1), \*Lforw\*O(1), \*Lrepl\*O(1),
\*Lmh-alias\*O(4), \*Lpost\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
