.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: show.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:40:03 $
.\"
.TH show 1
.SH NAME
show \- show (list) messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B show
[
\*V+folder\*O
] [
\*Vmsgs\*O
] [
.B \-draft
] [
.B \-[no]header
] [
.B \-help
] [
.B \-showproc
\*Vprogram\*O
] [
.B \-noshowproc
] [
\*Voptions to\*O
\*Lshowproc\*O
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "show command"
Use \*Lshow\*O to display the contents of the current message.
You can specify alternative messages or folders by using the
\*V+folder\*O
or
\*Vmsgs\*O
arguments.
.PP
If a folder is given, it becomes the current folder.
The last message shown becomes the current message.
.PP
You can specify a number of messages or a range of messages using the
\*Vmsgs \*O
argument.
If you specify more than one message, \*Lshow\*O prompts
for a <RETURN> prior to listing each message.
.PP
Typically, the messages are listed exactly as they are,
with no reformatting.
A program named by the \*Lshowproc\*O component in
the \*L\&.mh_profile\*O file is invoked to do the listing,
and any options not recognized by \*Lshow\*O are passed along to that program.
The default program is \*Lmore\*O(1).
.PP
By default, the \*Lshow\*O command use the \*Lmore\*O program
to list each message, a page at a time.
When the end of the page is reached,
it waits for a <RETURN> or a space.
If you press <RETURN>, \*Lshow\*O prints the next line.
If you press the space bar,
it prints the next screen of data.
At the end of the message, \*Lshow\*O automatically
returns you to the system prompt.  Press \*Lq\*O to
quit before the end of the message.
.PP
If the profile entry \*LUnseen-Sequence:\*O
is present and non-empty, then \*Lshow\*O will remove
each of the messages shown
from the sequences named by the profile entry.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP \-draft 10
Displays the draft message, or the current message in
your \*L+drafts\*O folder, if you have one set up.
You cannot give a
\*Vmsgs\*O
argument when you use this option.
.\"
.\" ***This option commented out
.ig
.IP "\-form \f2formfile\f3" 10
***ANY INFORMATION ON THIS???
.br
***IS IT -form OR -format???
..
.\" ***End of comments
.\"
.IP \-header 10
.PD 0
.IP \-noheader 10
.PD
Displays a one-line header before the message.
The header consists of the name of the folder
and the message number.
This is the default behavior.
It can be suppressed with the
.B \-noheader
option.
.\"
.IP \-help 10
Prints a list of the valid options to this command.
.\"
.IP "\-showproc \f2program\f1 [ \f2options\f1 ]\f3" 10
.PD 0
.IP \-noshowproc 10
.PD
Specifies an alternative program to list messages.
The default is to use the program defined by
the \*Lshowproc:\*O entry in the \*L\&.mh_profile\*O file.
You can give options to the \*Lshowproc\*O program
at the command line.
These are passed directly to \*Lshowproc\*O by \*Lshow\*O.
.IP
If the
.B \-noshowproc
option is specified, \*L/bin/cat\*O is used instead
of \*Lshowproc\*O.
.IP
The MH command \*Lmhl\*O can be used as a \*Lshowproc\*O to
show messages in a more uniform format.
See \*Lmhl\*O(1) for more details.
.IP
If you are going to use the same \*Lshowproc\*O all the time, it is
advisable to specify it in your \*L\&.mh_profile\*O file.
See \*Lmh_profile\*O(4) for more details.
.\"
.PP
The defaults for this command are as follows:
.IP
\*V+folder\*O
defaults to the current folder
.br
\*Vmsgs\*O
defaults to the current message
.br
.B \-header
.\"
.\" ***COMMENTED OUT
.\" ***Noinformation on -form or -format option
.\" .br
.\" .B \-format
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The
.B \-header
option does not work when \*Lmsgs\*O expands to more than
one message.
If the \*Lshowproc\*O is \*Lmhl\*O, then
this problem can be circumvented by referencing
the \*Lmessagename\*O field in the \*Lmhl\*O format file.
.PP
The command \*Lshow\*O updates your mail environment
before showing the message.
Hence \*Lshow\*O may mark messages as seen before you
actually see them.
However, this is generally not a problem,
unless you are using the \*Lunseen\*O messages mechanism,
and you interrupt \*Lshow\*O while it is showing \*Lunseen\*O messages.
.PP
If your \*Lshowproc\*O is \*Lmhl\*O, then \*Lshow\*O uses
a built-in \*Lmhl\*O: it does not actually run the \*Lmhl\*O program.
Hence, if you define your own \*Lshowproc\*O, do not call
it \*Lmhl\*O since \*Lshow\*O will not run it.
.PP
If \*Lmore\*O(1) is your \*Lshowproc\*O (which
is the default), then avoid running \*Lshow\*O in the
background with only its standard output piped to another process.
You should re-direct the diagnostic output of \*Lshow\*O as well
.PP
For example, in the following incorrect example, \*Lshow\*O will go
into a \*Ltty\*O input state:
.oS
% \f(CBshow | print &\f(CW
.oE
For users of \*Lcsh\*O, the correct command is:
.oS
% \f(CBshow |& print &\f(CW
.oE
For users of \*Lsh\*O, the correct command is:
.oS
% \f(CBshow 2>&1 | print &\f(CW
.oE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
In the first example, \*Lshow\*O displays the contents of message 36
in the current folder:
.oS
% \f(CBshow 36\f(CW
.oE
.PP
In the next example, the \*Lpr\*O(1) program
is used to list the current message:
.oS
% \f(CBshow \-showproc pr\f(CW
.oE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine the user's Mail directory
Unseen-Sequence:+To name sequences denoting unseen messages
showproc:+Program to show messages
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L$HOME/.mh_profile\*O
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lmore\*O(1), \*Lmhl\*O(1), \*Lnext\*O(1), \*Lpick\*O(1),
\*Lprev\*O(1), \*Lscan\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
