.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: showfont.1X,v $ $Revision: 1.2.6.8 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/16 21:02:18 $
.\" 
.\"$NCDId: @(#)showfont.man,v 4.2 1991/06/27 18:32:35 lemke Exp $
.\"
.\"
.TH showfont 1X "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
.PP
showfont - Font dumper for the X font server
.SH SYNTAX
.PP
\f3showfont\f1 [\f3-\f2options ...\f1] [\f3\-fn \f2pattern\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.NX "showfont command"
The
.B showfont
command displays data about the font that matches the given \f2pattern\fP.
The wildcard character "*" can be used to match any sequence of
characters (including none), and "?" to match any single character.
If no pattern is given, "*" is assumed.
.PP
The "*" and "?" characters must be surrounded by quotation marks
to prevent them from being expanded by the shell.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-server \f2host\fP:\f2port\fP
This option specifies the X font server to contact.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-l
This option indicates that the bit order of the font is LSBFirst
(least significant bit first).
.TP 8
.B \-m
This option indicates that the bit order of the font is MSBFirst
(most significant bit first).
.TP 8
.B \-L
This option indicates that the byte order of the font is LSBFirst
(least significant byte first).
.TP 8
.B \-M
This option indicates that the byte order of the font is MSBFirst
(most significant byte first).
.TP 8
.B \-extents_only
This option indicates that only the font's extents should be displayed.
.TP 8
.B \-start#
This option indicates the start of the range of the characters to display.
(# is a number.)
.TP 8
.B \-end#
This option indicates the end of the range of the characters to display.
(# is a number.)
.TP 8
.B \-pad#
This option specifies the scanpad unit of the font (1, 2, 4 or 8).
(# is a number.)
.TP 8
.B \-unit#
This option specifies the scanline unit of the font (1, 2, 4 or 8).
(# is a number.)
.TP 8
.B \-bitmap_pad#
This option specifies the bitmap padding unit of the font (0, 1, or 2,
where 0 is ImageRectMin, 1 is ImageRectMaxWidth and 2 is ImageRectMaxWidth).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B FONTSERVER
To get the default host and port to use.
.SH SEE ALSO
fs(1X), xlsfonts(1X)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1991, Network Computing Devices, Inc
.br
See \f2X(1X)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Dave Lemke, Network Computing Devices, Inc
.EQ
delim off
.EN
