.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: size.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/11/09 15:30:58 $
.\"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.  All Rights |
.\" | Reserved.                                         |
.\" -----------------------------------------------------
.\" $Header: /usr/doc/osf1doc/refpages/rcs/src/./BASE/DEC/man1/size.1,v 3.2.2.4 1992/11/09 15:30:58 Jeff_Mandell Exp $
.TH size 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lsize\*O \- prints the section size of an object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Lsize\*O [\*L-o -d -x -A -B -V\*O] [ \*Vfile1 ... fileN\*O ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "size command"
The \*Lsize\*O command
prints information about the \*Ltext, rdata, data, sdata, bss\*O and
\*Lsbss\*O sections of each file.
The file can be an object or an archive.
If you don't specify a file,
\*Lsize\*O uses \*Va.out\*O as the default.
.PP
The
\*L\-o\*O,
\*L\-x\*O,
and
\*L\-d\*O
options print the size in octal, hexadecimal, and decimal,
respectively.
.PP
The
\*L\-A\*O
option specifies AT&T System V-style output, which dumps the headers of
each section.
.PP
The 
\*L\-B\*O
option specifies Berkeley (4.3BSD)-style output, which is the default
for DEC OSF/1 systems. This output prints size information for each section,
regardless of whether the file exists, and prints the
total in hexadecimal and decimal formats.
.PP
The
\*L\-V\*O
option prints the version of \*Lsize\*O that you're using.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*VProgrammer's Guide\*O 
.EQ
delim off
.EN
