.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sleep.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/27 14:09:17 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH sleep 1
.SH NAME
\*Lsleep\*O \- Suspends execution for a specified time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lsleep\*O
\*Vseconds\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "sleep command"
.iX "suspending" "execution of a command"
.iX "commands" "execution" "suspending"
.iX "commands" "suspending execution of"
.PP
The \*Lsleep\*O command suspends execution of a process for the
interval specified by \*Vseconds\*O, which can range from 0 to
2,147,483,647 seconds.
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.PP
\*Vseconds\*O can be entered as a non-negative decimal,
octal, or hexadecimal value.
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH NOTES
.PP
If \*Lsleep\*O receives a
\*LSIGALARM\*O signal before process execution has resumed, \*Lsleep\*O
terminates normally with a 0 (zero) exit status.  (See the
\*Lsleep(\|)\*O reference page for more information.)
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL 3m
.LI
To display a message at 4-minute intervals for 20 minutes, create
a shell script called \*Lremind\*O containing the following:
.iS
for i
do
sleep 240; echo $i
sleep 240; echo $i
sleep 240; echo $i
sleep 240; echo $i
sleep 240; echo $i
done
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
To display the message \*CTry calling NHK\*O at 4-minute intervals,
enter:
.iS
remind 'Try calling NHK'
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To run a command at regular intervals, create a shell script containing the
following:
.iS
while true
do
        date
        sleep 60
done
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This displays the date and time once a minute.
.LE
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:  \*Lalarm\*O(3), \*Lpause\*O(3), \*Lsigaction\*O(2),
\*Lsleep\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
