.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: soelim.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/14 13:34:20 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH soelim 1
.SH NAME
\*Lsoelim\*O \- Processes \*L .so\*O requests in \*Lnroff\*O input
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lsoelim\*O
\*O[\*Vfile\*O
\&...]
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "soelim command"
.iX "inclusion requests"
.iX "files" "inclusion requests"
.iX "nroff" "file inclusion requests"
.PP 
The \*Lsoelim\*O command reads the specified files or standard input and
performs the textual inclusion implied by \*Lnroff\*O 
requests of the form:
.iS
\&.so \*Vfile\*O
.iE
.PP 
when these requests appear at the beginning of input lines (see
\*LRELATED INFORMATION\*O).  This is useful since commands such as
\*Ltbl\*O do not normally do this; the \*Lsoelim\*O command allows
the placement of individual tables in separate files to be run as a part
of a large document.  The original and included text are written to
the standard output.
.PP 
Note that exactly one space must precede and no spaces can follow the
filename.  A flag consisting of a \*L-\*O (dash) is taken to be a filename
corresponding to standard input.  Inclusion can be suppressed by using a
\*L'\*O (single quote) instead of a \&. (dot) as follows:
.iS
\&'so /usr/share/lib/tmac.s
\*O\c
.iE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
In the following example, the \*Lsoelim\*O command is used to preprocess
file inclusion (\*L\&.so\*O) requests:
.iS
soelim exum?.n | tbl | nroff -ms
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
Because the \*Ltbl\*O command does not process the \*Lnroff\*O
\*L\&.so\*O requests, the \*Lsoelim\*O command is used to 
preprocess them.  The output
is then passed to the \*Ltbl\*O command.  This facilitates the
placement of tables in separate files that can be included to form
a large document.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lcolcrt\*O(1), \*Lneqn\*O(1), \*Lnroff\*O(1), \*Ltbl\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
