.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sortm.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:40:36 $
.\"
.TH sortm 1
.SH NAME
sortm \- sort messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B sortm
[
\*Vmsgs\*O
] [
\*V+folder\*O
] [
\*Voptions\*O
]
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "sortm command"
.iX "MH user agent" "sorting messages"
The command \*Lsortm\*O sorts all the messages in the current folder into
chronological order according to the contents of
the \*LDate:\*O fields of the messages.
.PP
By default, \*Lsortm\*O sorts all the messages in the current folder.
You can select particular messages in the folder
by giving a range of messages.
You can also sort messages in another folder by specifying
the folder name.
.PP
If \*Lsortm\*O encounters a message without a \*LDate:\*O field,
or if the message has a \*LDate:\*O field that \*Lsortm\*O cannot parse,
it attempts to keep the message in the same relative position.
However, this does not always work;
for instance, if the first message encountered lacks a date which can be
parsed,
then it will usually be placed at the end of the messages being sorted.
.PP
When \*Lsortm\*O complains about a message which it cannot
order,
it complains about the message number prior
to sorting.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP "\-datefield \f2field\f1" 10
Specifies the name of the header field to use
when making the date comparison.
If you have a special field in each message,
such as \*LDelivery\-Date:\*O, then the
.B \-datefield
switch can be used to tell \*Lsortm\*O which
field to examine.
If you do not give this option, the default is to use
the \*LDate:\*O header field.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-help
Prints a list of all the valid options to this command.
.\"
.\"
.IP \-verbose 10
.PD 0
.IP \-noverbose 10
.PD
Displays the general actions that it is taking
to place the folder in sorted order.
The
.B \-noverbose
option performs these actions silently.
The default is
\f3\-noverbose\f1.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The default settings for this command are:
.IP
\*V+folder\*O
defaults to the current folder
.br
\*Vmsgs\*O
defaults to all
.br
.B \-datefield\ date
.br
.B \-noverbose
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
.PP
.TS
tab(+);
l l.
Path:+To determine your MH directory
.TE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example sorts all the messages in the folder \*L+meetings\*O:
.oS
% \f(CBsortm +meetings
.oE
.PP
The next example sorts messages 10-30 in the folder called \*L+test\*O:
.oS
% \f(CBsortm +test 10-30
.oE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 10
\*L$HOME/\&.mh_profile\*O
The user profile.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lfolder\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
