.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: split.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/16 13:07:00 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH split 1
.SH NAME
\*Lsplit\*O \- Splits a file into pieces
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.sS
.SS Current syntax
.IP
\*Lsplit\*O
\*O[\*L-l\ \*Vline_count\*O]
\*O[\*L-a\ \*Vsuffix_length\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O\ |\ \*L-\*O]
\*O[\*Vprefix\*O]
.IP
\*Lsplit\*O
\*L-b\ \*Vn\*O[\*Lk\*O\ |\ \*Lm\*O]
\*O[\*L-a\ \*Vsuffix_length\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O\ |\ \*L-\*O]
\*O[\*Vprefix\*O]
.SS Obsolescent syntax
.IP
\*Lsplit\*O
\*O[\*L\(hy\*Vnumber\*O]
\*O[\*L-a\ \*Vsuffix_length\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O\ |\ \*L-\*O]
\*O[\*Vprefix\*O]
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.sE
.sp 0.6
The \*Lsplit\*O command reads \*Vfile\*O and writes it in\*L
\*Lnumber\*O-line pieces (default 1000 lines) to a set of output files.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.LI "\*L-a \*Vsuffix_length\*O"
Uses \*Vsuffix_length\*O letters to form the suffix portion of the
filenames of the split file.  If \*L-a\*O is not specified, the
default suffix length is two letters.  If the sum of the \*Vprefix\*O
and the \*Vsuffix\*O arguments would create a filename exceeding
\*LNAME_MAX\*O bytes, an error occurs.  In this case, \*Lsplit\*O
exits with a diagnostic message and no files are created.
.LI "\*L-b \*Vn\*O\*O"
Split a file into pieces \*Vn\*O bytes in size.
.LI "\*L-b \*Vn\*Lk\*O"
Split a file into pieces \*Vn\*O bytes in size.
.LI "\*L-b \*Vn\*Lm\*O"
Split a file into pieces \*Vn\*O bytes in size.
.LI "\*L-l \*Vline_count\*O"
Specifies the number of lines in each output file.  The
\*Vline_count\*O argument is an unsigned decimal integer.  The default
value is 1000.  If the input does not end with a newline character,
the partial line is included in the last output file.
.LI "\*L-\*Vnumber\*O"
Specifies the number of lines in each output file.  The default is
1000 lines per output file.  (Obsolescent)
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "split command"
.iX "files" "splitting"
.iX "splitting files"
.PP
The size of the output files can be modified by using the \*L-b\*O or
\*L-l\*O flags.  Each output file is created with a unique suffix
consisting of exactly \*Vsuffix\*O lowercase letters from the POSIX
locale.  The letters of the suffix are used as if they were a base-26
digit system, with the first suffix to be created consisting of all
\*La\*O characters, the second with \*Lb\*O replacing the last \*La\*O
etc., until a name of all \*Lz\*Os is created.  By default, the names
of the output files are \*Lx\*O, followed by a two-character suffix
from the character set as described above, starting with \*Laa\*O,
\*Lab\*O, \*Lac\*O, etc., and continuing until the suffix \*Lzz\*O,
for a maximum of 676 files.
.PP
The value of \*Vprefix\*O cannot be longer
than the value of \*LNAME_MAX\*O from \*Llimits.h\*O minus two.
.PP
If the number of files required is greater than the maximum allowed by
the effective suffix length (such that the last allowable file would
be larger than the requested size), \*Lsplit\*O fails after creating
the last possible file with a valid suffix.  The \*Lsplit\*O command will not
delete the files it created with valid suffixes.  If the file limit is
not exceeded, the last file created contains the remainder of the
input file and thus might be smaller than the requested size.
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.PP
If you do not specify an input file, or if you specify \*L-\*O
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To split a file into 1000-line segments, enter:
.iS
split  book
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This splits \*Lbook\*O into 1000-line segments
named \*Lxaa\*O, \*Lxab\*O, \*Lxac\*O, and so forth.
.LI
To split a file into 50-line segments and specify
the filename prefix, enter:
.iS
split  -l50  book  sect
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This splits \*Lbook\*O into 50-line segments
named \*Lsectaa\*O, \*Lsectab\*O, \*Lsectac\*O, and so forth.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lbfs\*O(1), \*Lcsplit\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
