.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH strchg 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lstrchg\*O, \*Lstrconf\*O - Alters and queries stream configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lstrchg\*O
\*L\(hyh\*O\ \*Vmodule1\*O[\*L,\*Vmodule2\*L,\*O\ \&...\ \*Vmodulen\*O]
.PP
\*Lstrchg\*O
\*L\(hyp\*O\ \*O[\*L\(hya\*O\ |\ \*L\(hyu\ \*Vmodule\*O]
.PP
\*Lstrchg\*O
\*L\(hyf\*O\ \*Vfile\*O
.PP
\*Lstrconf\*O
\*O[\*L\(hyt\*O\ |\ \*L\(hym\ \*Vmodule\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lstrchg\*O and \*Lstrconf\*O commands modify and return information
about the configuration of the Stream associated with the user's
standard input.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
The \*Lstrchg\*O command has three formats, which must be specified separately.
These formats offer the following flags:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-a \*Vmodule\*O"
When used with \*L-p\*O, removes all of the STREAMS modules
above the topmost driver; that is, the command only affects the
uppermost Stream created for a multiplexed driver, not any of the
lower Streams.
This flag cannot be used with \*L-u\*O.
.LI "\*L-f \*Vfile\*O"
Specifies a \*Vfile\*O that contains a list of STREAMS modules
to be pushed on the standard input Stream for a desired configuration.
The names of the modules must occupy separate lines in the file.
The \*Lstrchg\*O command pushes any module that is desired but is not
present on the Stream, and pops any module that is not desired
and is present on the Stream.
.LI "\*L-h \*Vmodule1\*O[\*L,\*Vmodule2\*L,\*O ... \*Vmodulen\*O]"
Pushes the STREAMS module or modules specified by the \*Vmodule\*O argument or
arguments on the standard input Stream.  The command pushes
the STREAMS modules on the Stream in the order that they are specified;
that is, \*Vmodule1\*O is pushed first, \*Vmodule2\*O is pushed second,
and so forth.
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Pops STREAMS modules off the standard input Stream.
When the \*L-p\*O flag is specified without any other flags,
the command removes the topmost module (the module immediately below the
Stream head) from the Stream.  The \*L-a\*O and \*L-u\*O
flags cannot be used simultaneously with the \*L-p\*O flag.
.LI "\*L-u \*Vmodule\*O"
When used with \*L-p\*O,
pops all of the modules above the specified
module off the Stream, leaving that module on it.
This flag cannot be used with \*L-a\*O.
.LE
.PP
The \*Lstrconf\*O command flags are the following:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-t \*Vmodule\*O"
Prints the name
of the topmost module on the standard input Stream, if this module exists.
.LI "\*L-m \*Vmodule\*O"
Confirms whether or not the specified module \*Vmodule\*O is present
on the Stream.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "strchg command"
.iX "strconf command"
.iX "Stream configuration"
The \*Lstrchg\*O command pushes and pops STREAMS modules on and
off the user's standard input Stream to achieve a desired configuration.
The \*Lstrconf\*O command queries the configuration of the Stream,
then prints the names of the modules and the topmost device driver, or
the name of the topmost module, or the name of a specific module.
.PP
When the \*L-f\*O flag is used, the \*Lstrchg\*O command first determines
the current configuration of the standard input
Stream, then pushes or pops the modules named in the \*Vfile\*O argument
to fix it.  The module that is named
first is meant to be the one that is located below
the Stream head, while the module named last is meant to
be at the bottom of the Stream, closest to the device driver.
This is the opposite of the order in which the \*Lstrchg\*O command
pushes and pops modules when it is invoked with the \*L-h\*O flag.
.PP
To use the \*Lstrchg\*O command, you must either be the owner of the
Stream or the superuser.
.PP
Without flags, the \*Lstrconf\*O command prints the names of all
of the modules, if any, and the name of the topmost driver.
Names are printed one per line, with the driver's name last.
When the \*Lautopush\*O mechanism is used in a system, the
\*Lstrconf\*O command returns the names of the modules that were automatically
pushed on the standard input Stream at the opening of the associated device.
If the Stream configuration has been changed since the device was opened,
the command prints the altered list of module names.
.PP
If the \*L-t\*O flag is used, the \*Lstrconf\*O command prints only
the topmost module's name, if any exists.
When the \*L-m\*O flag is used, the command queries the standard input Stream
for the module specified in the \*Vmodule\*O argument.
If this module is present on the Stream, it prints the message \*Cyes\*O
and returns a 0 (zero).  If the module is
not on the Stream, \*Lstrchg\*O prints \*Cno\*O and returns a nonzero value.
The \*L-t\*O and \*L-m\*O flags cannot be used simultaneously.
.PP
To use the \*Lstrconf\*O command, you must either have read
permission or be the superuser.
.PP
For both the \*Lstrchg\*O and \*Lstrconf\*O commands, note that if
modules are pushed onto the user's standard input Stream in the wrong
order, that Stream will not function as expected.
For example, in the case of terminal lines (ttys), the line
discipline module must be pushed
in the correct place; otherwise, the terminal might not respond
correctly to commands.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To print out the names of the modules and driver present on the user's
standard input Stream, enter:
.iS
strconf
.iE
.LI
To push the fictional line discipline module \*Llinedisp\*O onto the
the user's standard input Stream, enter:
.iS
strchg -h linedisp
.iE
.sp 0.4v
The \*Lldterm\*O module is pushed below the Stream head in the user's
standard input Stream.
.LI
To set up the standard input Stream (JIS) characters,
and to do this using a previously created file called
\*L/$HOME/\&.mytty.conf\*O that lists the modules, enter:
.iS
strchg  -f  $HOME/\&.mytty.conf
.iE
If the list of modules in the \*L/$HOME/\&.mytty.conf\*O file is
as follows, the fictional \*Lupass\*O module
will be pushed first, followed by the fictional \*Llinedisp\*O
module, followed by the fictional \*Llpass\*O module.
.oS
upass
linedisp
lpass
.oE
.LE
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
The \*Lstrchg\*O command returns 0 (zero) on success.
When the command encounters an error, it returns a nonzero status
and prints an error message.  The command returns
errors for such conditions as a usage error, bad module name,
failure of an \*Lioctl\*O system call, and failure to open the file
specified by the \*L-f\*O flag.
.PP
The \*Lstrconf\*O command returns 0 (zero) on success and a nonzero status
for errors.  It prints an error message for any errors.
When the \*L-m\*O and \*L-t\*O flags
return successfully, this indicates that the named,
or topmost, module is present.  The error conditions that the command
returns a status for include a usage error and a failure of an \*Lioctl\*O
system call.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lautopush\*O(8).
.iX "autopush command"
.PP
Interfaces: \*Lstreamio\*O(7).
.iX "streamio interface"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
