.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 1.2
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: strings.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/27 18:02:49 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH strings 1
.SH NAME
\*Lstrings\*O \- finds strings in an ASCII or binary file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Lstrings\*O
\*O[\*L\(hyao\*O]
\*O[\*L-t\ \*Vformat\*O]
\*O[\*L-n\ \*Vnumber\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O\ \&.\&.\&.]
.\" .SS Obsolescent syntax
.\" .PP
.\" \*Lstrings\*O
.\" \*O[\*L-\*O]
.\" \*O[\*L-t\ \*Vformat\*O]
.\" \*O[\*L\(hy\*Vnumber\*O]
.\" \*O[\*Vfile\*O\ \&.\&.\&.]
.\" .sE
.\" .gL "binary file"
.SH FLAGS
.iX "strings command"
.iX "finding" "printable strings in ASCII and binary files"
.iX "object files" "finding printable strings in"
.iX "strings" "finding in ASCII and binary files"
.iX "binary files" "finding printable strings in"
.iX "ASCII files" "finding printable strings in"
.PP
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-a\*O"
Searches an entire object file, rather than just the initialized data space.
.LI "\*L-n \*Vnumber\*O"
Sets the minimum string length to \*Vnumber\*O rather than the
default of 4.
.LI "\*L-o\*O"
Precedes each string by its offset (in octal) in the file.
.LI "\*L-t \*Vformat\*O"
Writes each string preceded by its byte offset from the start of the
file.  The format is dependent on the single character used as the
\*Vformat\*O argument, as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Ld\*O"
The offset is written in decimal.
.LI "\*Lo\*O"
The offset is written in octal.
.LI "\*Lx\*O"
The offset is written in hexadecimal.
.LE
.LI "\*L-\*Vnumber\*O"
Sets the minimum string length to \*Vnumber\*O rather than the default
of 4.
(Obsolescent)
.LI "\*L-\*O"
Searches an entire object file, rather than just the initialized data space.
(Obsolescent)
.LE
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A string is any sequence of 4 or more printing characters ending with
a newline or null character.  The \*Lstrings\*O command
is useful for identifying random object files.
.PP
Unless the \*L-a\*O flag is given, \*Lstrings\*O
only looks in the initialized data space of object files.
.PP
If you do not specify a \*Vfile\*O argument, \*Lstrings\*O
reads from standard input.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lod\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
