.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: strmerge.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:41:49 $
.\"
.TH strmerge 1
.SH NAME
strmerge \- batch string replacement
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B strmerge
[
.B \-m
\*Vprefix\*O
] [
.B \-p
\*Vpatternfile\*O
] [
.B \-s
\*Vstring\*O
]
\*Vsource-program...\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "strmerge utility"
The \*Lstrmerge\*O command reads the strings specified in the
message file produced by \*Lstrextract\*O
and replaces those strings with calls to the message file in the source program
to create a new source program. The new version of source program has the same
name as the input source program, with the prefix nl_. For example, if the
input source program is named \*Lprog.c\*O,
the output source program is named \*L\&nl_prog.c\*O.
You use this command to replace hard-coded messages
(text strings identified by the \*Lstrextract\*O
command) with calls to the \*Lcatgets\*O
function and to create a source message catalog file. The source message
catalog contains the text for each message extracted from your input source
program. The \*Lstrmerge\*O command names the file by appending
\*L\&.msg\*O to the name of the input source
program. For example, the source message catalog for the \*Lprog.c\*O
program is named \*Lprog.msg\*O .
You can use the source message catalog as input to the \*Lgencat\*O command.
.PP
At run time, the program reads the message text from the message catalog.
By storing messages in a message catalog, instead of your program, you allow
the text of messages to be translated to a new language or modified without
the source program being changed.
.PP
In the
\*Vsource-program\*O
argument, you name one or more source programs for which you want strings
replaced. The \*Lstrmerge\*O command does not replace messages for source
programs included using the \*L#include\*O directive. Therefore, you
might want a source program and all the source programs it includes
on a single \*Lstrmerge\*O command line.
.PP
You can create a patterns file (as specified by
\*Vpatternfile\*O
) to control how the \*Lstrmerge\*O
command replaces text. The patterns file is divided into several sections,
each of which is identified by a keyword. The keyword must start at the
beginning of a new line, and its first character must be a dollar sign ($).
Following the identifier, you specify a number of patterns. Each pattern
begins on a new line and follows the regular expression syntax you use in
the \*Led\*O editor. For more information on the patterns file,
see the \*Lpatterns\*O(4) reference page.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP \f3\-m\f1 5
Add
\*Vprefix\*O
to message numbers in the output source program and source message catalog.
You can use this prefix as a mnemonic. You must process source message
catalogs that contain number prefixes using the \*Lmkcatdefs\*O
command.  Message numbers will be in the form:
.oS
<prefix><msg_num>
.oE
.IP
Set numbers will be in the form:
.oS
S_<prefix><set_num>
.oE
.IP
If you process your input source program with the \*Lmkcatdefs\*O
command, the resulting
source program and source message catalog might not be portable.
For more information, see the
\*EWriting Software for the International Market\*O.
.IP \f3-p\fP 5
Use
\*Vpatternfile\*O
to match strings in the input source program.
By default, the command searches for the pattern file
in the current directory, your home directory and finally \*L/usr/lib/nls\*O.
.IP
If you omit the \*L\-p\*O option, the \*Lstrmerge\*O
command uses a default patterns file that is stored in
\*L/usr/lib/nls/patterns\*O.
.IP \f3\-s\f1 5
Write
\*Vstring \*O
at the top of the source message catalog. If you omit the \*L\-s\*O
option, \*Lstrmerge\*O uses the string specified in the
\*L$CATHEAD\*O section of the patterns file.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
You can specify only one rewrite string for all classes of pattern matches.
.PP
The \*Lstrmerge\*O command does not verify if the message text file
matches the source file being rewritten.
.PP
The \*Lstrmerge\*O command does not replace strings to files included with
\*L#include\*O directive. You must run the \*Lstrmerge\*O
command on these files separately.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following produces a message file \*Lprog.cat\*O for a program called
\*Lprog.c\*O.
.oS
% strextract \-p c_patterns prog.c prog2.c
% vi prog.str
% strmerge \-p c_patterns prog.c prog2.c
% gencat prog.cat prog.msg prog2.msg
% vi nl_prog.c
% vi nl_prog2.c
% cc nl_prog.c nl_prog2.c
.oE
.PP
In this example, the \*Lstrextract\*O command uses the \*Lc_patterns\*O
file to determine which strings to match. The input source programs are named
\*Lprog.c\*O and \*Lprog2.c\*O.
.PP
If you need to remove any of the messages or extract one of the created strings, edit the
resulting message file, \*Lprog.str\*O.
Under no conditions should you add to this file. Doing so could result in
unpredictable behavior.
.PP
You issue the \*Lstrmerge\*O command to replace the extracted strings
with calls to the message catalog. In response to this command, \*Lstrmerge\*O
creates the source message catalogs, \*Lprog.msg\*O and \*Lprog2.msg\*O, and
the output source programs, \*Lnl_prog.c\*O and \*Lnl_prog2.c\*O.
.PP
Before compiling the source programs, you must edit \*Lnl_prog.c\*O and
\*Lnl_prog2.c\*O to include the appropriate \*Lcatopen\*O and
\*Lcatclose\*O function calls.
.PP
The \*Lgencat\*O command creates a message catalog and the \*Lcc\*O
command creates an executable program.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lextract\*O(1), \*Lgencat\*O(1), \*Lstrextract\*O(1), \*Ltrans\*O(1),
\*Lregexp\*O(3), \*Lcatopen\*O(3), \*Lcatgets\*O(3), \*Lpatterns\*O(4)
.PP
\*EWriting Software for the International Market\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
