.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: stty.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/11/17 19:24:33 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
...\" Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
...\" All rights reserved.
...\"
...\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
...\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
...\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
...\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
...\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
...\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
...\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
...\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
...\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
...\" specific prior written permission.
...\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
...\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
...\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
...\"
...\" @(#)stty.1        6.6 (Berkeley) 6/24/90
...\"
.TH stty 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lstty\*O \- Sets terminal characteristics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lstty\*O
\*O[\*L-a\*O
|
\*L-g\*O]
\*O[\*L-f\*O
\*Vspecial-device\*O]
.PP
\*Lstty\*O
\*O[\*L-f\*O
\*Vspecial-device\*O]
\*O[\*Vargument\*O
\&...]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lstty\*O utility sets or reports on terminal I/O
characteristics for the device that is its standard input.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "stty command"
.iX "setting" "terminal characteristics"
.iX "terminals" "settings"
.iX "terminals" "characteristics"
.iX "displaying" "terminal settings"
.iX "characteristics" "terminal"
Without flags or arguments specified, \*Lstty\*O reports the
settings of certain characteristics, usually those that differ
from implementation-defined defaults; otherwise, \*Lstty\*O modifies
the terminal state according to the specified arguments.
Some combinations of arguments are mutually
exclusive on some terminal types.
.SS Control Modes
The following arguments are available to set the terminal
characteristics:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lparenb\*O (\*L-parenb\*O)"
Enables (disables) parity generation and detection.
.LI "\*Lparodd\*O (\*L-parodd\*O)"
Selects odd (even) parity.
.LI "\*Lcs5 cs6 cs7 cs8\*O"
Selects character size, if possible.
.LI "\*Vnumber\*O"
Sets terminal baud rate to the number given, if possible.  If the
baud rate is set to zero, modem control is no longer asserted.
.LI "\*Lispeed\*O \*Vnumber\*O"
Sets terminal input baud rate to the number given, if possible.
If zero is specified, the input baud rate is set to be the same
as the output baud rate.
.LI "\*Lospeed\*O \*Vnumber\*O"
Sets terminal output baud rate to the number given, if possible.
If the output baud rate is set to zero, modem control is no longer asserted.
.LI "\*Lhupcl\*O (\*L-hupcl\*O)"
Stops asserting modem control
(does not stop asserting modem control) on last close.
.LI "\*Lhup\*O (\*L-hup\*O)"
Same as \*Lhupcl\*O (\*L-hupcl\*O).
.LI "\*Lcstopb\*O (\*L-cstopb\*O)"
Uses two (one) stop bits per character.
.LI "\*Lcread\*O (\*L-cread\*O)"
Enables (disables) the receiver.
.LI "\*Lclocal\*O (\*L-clocal\*O)"
Assumes a line without (with) modem control.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\"
.\" Removed the following:
.\" 
.\" .LI "\*Lcrtscts\*O (\*L-crtscts\*O)" 
.\" Uses (does not use) RTS/CTS hardware flow control.
.\" 
.\" End Digital-specific information
.LI "\*Lnokerninfo\*O (\*L-nokerninfo\*O)"
Disables (enables) the printing of kernel-generated status
information when the \*Linfo\*O control character is entered.
.LE
.SS Input Modes
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lechoctl\*O (\*L-echoctl\*O)"
Echoes control characters as \*L^\*VX\*O and \*L<Delete>\*O
as \*L^?\*O.  Prints two backspaces following the End-of-File
character.  (Special characters are echoed as themselves.)
.LI "\*Lignbrk\*O (\*L-ignbrk\*O)"
Ignores (does not ignore) break on input.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Inserted a minus before the second brkint per QAR 6167.
.LI "\*Lbrkint\*O (\*L-brkint\*O)"
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
Signals (does not signal) \*LINTR\*O on break.
.LI "\*Lignpar\*O (\*L-ignpar\*O)"
Ignores (does not ignore) parity errors.
.LI "\*Lparmrk\*O (\*L-parmrk\*O)"
Marks (does not mark) parity errors.
.LI "\*Linpck\*O (\*L-inpck\*O)"
Enables (disables) input parity checking.
.LI "\*Listrip\*O (\*L-istrip\*O)"
Strips (does not strip) input characters to seven bits.
.LI "\*Linlcr\*O (\*L-inlcr\*O)"
Maps (does not map) newline to carriage-return on input.
.LI "\*Ligncr\*O (\*L-igncr\*O)"
Ignores (does not ignore) carriage-return on input.
.LI "\*Licrnl\*O (\*L-icrnl\*O)"
Maps (does not map) carriage-return to newline on input.
.LI "\*Limaxbel\*O (\*L-imaxbel\*O)"
Does (does not) ring bell on terminal when input buffer is full.
.LI "\*Liuclc\*O (\*L-iuclc\*O)"
Maps (does not map) uppercase alphabetic characters to lowercase.
.LI "\*Lixon\*O (\*L-ixon\*O)"
Enables (disables) Start/Stop output control.  Output from the system is
stopped when the system receives Stop and started when the system
receives Start.
.LI "\*Lixany\*O (\*L-ixany\*O)"
Allows any character (allows only \*L<Ctrl-q>\*O) to restart output.
.LI "\*Lixoff\*O (\*L-ixoff\*O)"
Requests that the system send (not send) Start/Stop characters when
the input queue is nearly empty/full.
.LE
.SS Output Modes
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lopost\*O (\*L-opost\*O)"
Post-processes output (does not post-process output; ignores all other
output modes).
.LI "\*Lolcuc\*O (\*L-olcuc\*O)"
Maps (does not map) lowercase alphabetic characters to uppercase on output.
.LI "\*Lonoeot\*O (\*L-onoeot\*O)"
Discards (keeps) End-of-Text on output.
.LI "\*Lonlcr\*O (\*L-onlcr\*O)"
Maps (does not map) newline characters to carriage-return/newline characters.
.LI "\*Locrnl\*O (\*L-ocrnl\*O)"
Maps (does not map) carriage-return/newline characters to newline characters.
.LI "\*Lonocr\*O (\*L-onocr\*O)"
Does not (does) output carriage-return characters at column 0 (zero).
.LI "\*Lonlret\*O (\*L-onlret\*O)"
Causes (does not cause) newline to perform the carriage-return function
on the terminal.
.LI "\*Lofill\*O (\*L-ofill\*O)"
Uses fill characters (uses timing) for delays.
.LI "\*Lofdel\*O (\*L-ofdel\*O)"
Uses Delete (uses Null) characters for fill characters.
.LI "\*Ltabs\*O (\*L-tabs\*O)"
Maintains (expands to spaces) any tab characters in the output.
.LI "\*Lcr0 cr1\*O \*Lcr2\*O \*Lcr3\*O"
Selects style of delay for carriage-return characters.
.LI "\*Lnl0 nl1\*O \*Lnl2\*O \*Lnl32\*O"
Selects style of delay for newline characters.
.LI "\*Ltab0 tab1\*O \*Ltab2\*O \*Ltab3\*O"
Selects style of delay for horizontal tabs.
.LI "\*Lbs0 bs1\*O"
Selects style of delay for backspaces.
.LI "\*Lff0 ff1\*O"
Selects style of delay for form feeds.
.LI "\*Lvt0 vt1\*O"
Selects style of delay for vertical tabs.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Added the following two options per QAR 7894.  
.\" Text comes directly from the OSF/1 Rel 1.1 stty(1) manpage.
.LI "\*Lrows \*Vnumber\*O"
Specifies the number of lines this display can hold.
.LI "\*Lcolumns \*Vnumber\*O (or \*Lcols \*Vnumber\*O)"
Specifies the number of characters per display line.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.LE
.SS Local Modes
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Laltwerase\*O (\*L-altwerase\*O)"
Uses (does not use) the \*Laltwerase\*O mode, which defines a word
as containing only alphanumeric characters and \*L_\*O (underscore).
.LI "\*Lisig\*O (\*L-isig\*O)"
Enables (disables) the checking of
characters against the special control
characters \*LINTR\*O, \*LQUIT\*O, and \*LSUSP\*O.
.LI "\*Licanon\*O (\*L-icanon\*O)"
Enables (disables) canonical input (Erase and Kill processing).
.LI "\*Lcrtkill\*O (\*L-crtkill\*O)"
Echoes (does not echo) the Kill character by erasing the line in
place like \*Lechoe\*O.
.LI "\*Lmdmbuf\*O (\*L-mdmbuf\*O)"
Uses (does not use) carrier as a flow control flag rather
than sending a \*LHANGUP\*O signal.
.LI "\*Lprterase\*O (\*L-prterase\*O)"
Prints (does not print) erased characters backwards within
\e (backslash) and / (slash).
.LI "\*Ltostop\*O (\*L-tostop\*O)"
Stops (allows) output from background jobs to the terminal.
.LI "\*Lxcase\*O (\*L-xcase\*O)"
Echoes (does not echo) uppercase characters on input, and displays
uppercase characters on output with a preceding \e (backslash).
.LI "\*Liexten\*O (\*L-iexten\*O)"
Enables (disables) any implementation-defined special control-characters
not currently controlled by \*Licanon\*O, \*Lisig\*O, or \*Lixon\*O.
.LI "\*Lecho\*O (\*L-echo\*O)"
Echoes back (does not echo back) every character typed.
.LI "\*Lechoe\*O (\*L-echoe\*O)"
Causes the Erase character to (to
not) visually erase the last character in the current line from the
display, if possible.
.LI "\*Lechok\*O (\*L-echok\*O)"
Echoes (does not echo) newline after the Kill character.
.LI "\*Lechonl\*O (\*L-echonl\*O)"
Echoes (does not echo) newline, even if \*Lecho\*O is disabled.
.LI "\*Lnoflsh\*O (\*L-noflsh\*O)"
Disables (enables) flush after \*LINTR\*O, \*LQUIT\*O, \*LSUSP\*O.
.LE
.SS Control Assignments
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Vspecial-character\*O \*Vstring\*O"
Sets \*Vspecial-character\*O to \*Vstring\*O.
The special character is set to the first character in \*Vstring\*O and
subsequent characters are ignored, with the following exceptions:
.ML
.LI
The \*Vstrings\*Os \*Lundef\*O and \*L^-\*O set the special character to
\*L{_POSIX_VDISABLE}\*O if it is in effect for the device.
.LI
The \*Vstring\*O \*L^?\*O sets the special character to
\*L<Delete>\*O.
.LI
Any other \*Vstring\*O beginning with the character \*L^\*O sets the
special character to the control character corresponding to the
second character of \*Vstring\*O (subsequent characters are ignored).
For example, the \*Vstring\*O \*L^c\*O sets the special character to
\*L^C\*O; the string \*L^zq\*O sets the special character to \*L^Z\*O.
.IP
Note that you can set a special character to a control character in two ways:
by entering the control character itself or by entering \*L^\*O and another
character.  This allows you to enter a control characters that is already
assigned to a special character without entering that special character; for
example, you can enter \*L^C\*O, even if it is already assigned to the
\*Lintr\*O special character, by entering \*L^\*O and then \*Lc\*O.
.IP
Recognized \*Vspecial-character\*Os include
\*Ldsusp\*O, \*Leof\*O, \*Leol\*O, \*Leol2\*O, \*Lerase\*O, \*Ldiscard\*O,
\*Lstatus\*O, \*Lintr\*O, \*Lkill\*O, \*Llnext\*O, \*Lquit\*O,
\*Lreprint\*O, \*Lstart\*O, \*Lstop\*O, \*Lsusp\*O, and \*Lwerase\*O.
.LE
.LI "\*Vsaved settings\*O"
Sets the current terminal characteristics to the saved settings
produced by the \*L-g\*O flag.
.LI "\*Lmin\*O \*Vnumber\*O"
.LI "\*Ltime\*O \*Vnumber\*O"
Sets the value of \*Lmin\*O or \*Ltime\*O to \*Vnumber\*O.
\*LMIN\*O and \*LTIME\*O are used in Non-Canonical mode input processing
(\*L-icanon\*O).
.LI "\*Lline\*O \*Vnumber\*O"
Sets the line discipline to the specified number.
.LE
.SS Combination Modes
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Levenp\*O or \*Lparity\*O"
Enables \*Lparenb\*O and \*Lcs7\*O; disables \*Lparodd\*O.
.LI "\*Loddp\*O"
Enables \*Lparenb\*O, \*Lcs7\*O, and \*Lparodd\*O.
.LI "\*Lparity\*O, \*Levenp\*O, \*Loddp\*O"
Disables \*Lparenb\*O, and sets \*Lcs8\*O.
.LI "\*Lraw\*O (\*L-raw\*O | \*Lcooked\*O)"
Enables (disables) raw input and output (no \*LERASE\*O, \*LKILL\*O,
\*LINTR\*O, \*LQUIT\*O, \*LEOT\*O, or output processing).
.LI "\*Lnl\*O (\*L-nl\*O)"
Enables (disables) \*Licrnl\*O and \*Lonlcr\*O.
\*L-nl\*O also unsets \*Linlcr\*O, \*Ligncr\*O \*Locrnl\*O, and \*Lonlret\*O.
.LI "\*Llcase\*O (\*L-lcase\*O)"
.LI "\*LLCASE\*O (\*L-LCASE\*O)"
Sets (unsets) \*Lxcase\*O, \*Liuclc\*O, and \*Lolcuc\*O.  (Used for terminals
with uppercase characters only.)
.LI "\*Lsane\*O"
Resets all modes to some reasonable values.
.LE
.SS Compatibility Mode
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lek\*O"
Resets Erase and Kill characters back to system defaults.
.LI "\*Llfkc\*O (\*L-lfkc\*O)"
Same as \*Lechok\*O.
.LI "\*Lflow\*O (\*L-flow\*O)"
Same as \*Lixon\*O (\*L-ixon\*O).
.LI "\*Ltandem\*O (\*L-tandem\*O)"
Same as \*Lixoff\*O (\*L-ixoff\*O).
.LI "\*Ldecctlq\*O (\*L-decctlq\*O)"
Same as \*Lixany\*O (\*L-ixany\*O).
.LI "\*Ldec\*O"
Sets all modes suitable for terminals supplied by Digital Equipment
Corporation.  (The control-character \*L<Erase>\*O is set to \*L^?\*O).
.LI "\*Lcrterase\*O (\*L-crterase\*O)"
.LI "\*Lcrtbs\*O (\*L-crtbs\*O)"
Same as \*Lechoe\*O (\*L-echoe\*O).
.LI "\*Lctlecho\*O (\*L-ctlecho\*O)"
Same as \*Lechoctl\*O (\*L-echoctl\*O).
.LI "\*Lcrt\*O (\*L-crt\*O)"
.LI "\*Lnewcrt\*O (\*L-newcrt\*O)"
Sets (clears) \*Lechoe\*O, \*Lechoke\*O, and \*Lechoctl\*O.
.LI "\*Llitout\*O (\*L-litout\*O)"
Sends output characters with no (with) output processing.
.LI "\*Lxtabs\*O (\*L-xtabs\*O)"
.LI "\*Loxtabs\*O (\*L-oxtabs\*O)"
Expands (does not expand) tabs to spaces.
.LI "\*Lfill\*O (\*L-fill\*O)"
Same as \*Lofill\*O (\*L-ofill\*O).
.LI "\*Lall\*O"
.LI "\*Leverything\*O"
Same as \*L-a\*O.
.LI "\*Lechoke\*O (\*L-echoke\*O)"
.LI "\*Lnohang\*O (\*L-nohang\*O)"
Does not (does) send \*LHANGUP\*O signal if carrier drops.
.LI "\*Lnul-fill\*O"
Does character fill and uses Null character.
.LI "\*Ldel-fill\*O"
Does character fill and uses Delete character.
.LI "\*Ltty33\*O"
Sets modes suitable for the Teletype Corporation Model 33 terminal.
.LI "\*Ltty37\*O"
Sets modes suitable for the Teletype Corporation Model 37 terminal.
.LI "\*Lvt05\*O"
Sets modes suitable for the Digital Equipment Corporation Mode VT05 terminal.
.LI "\*Ltn300\*O"
Sets modes suitable for the General Electric TermiNet 300.
.LI "\*Lti700\*O"
Sets modes suitable for the Texas Instruments 700 series.
.LI "\*Ltek\*O"
Sets modes suitable for the Tektronix 4014 terminal.
.LI "\*Lspeed\*O"
Prints only the line speed and a trailing semicolon (;).
.LI "\*Lsize\*O"
Prints only the terminal size.
.LE
.PP
If no options are specified, an unspecified subset of the
information displayed for the \*L-a\*O flag is displayed.
.PP
If the terminal input speed and output speed are the same,
the speed information is displayed as follows:
.oS
speed \*Vspeed \*Cbaud\*O
.oE
.PP
Otherwise speeds are displayed as follows:
.oS
ispeed \*Vispeed \*Cbaud; ospeed \*Vospeed \*Cbaud;
\*O
.oE
.PP
Control-characters are displayed as follows:
.oS
\*Vcontrol-character\*C\ =\ \*Vvalue\*O
.oE
.PP
where \*Vvalue\*O is either the character, or some visual
representation of the character if it is nonprinting, or
the string \*Lundef\*O if the character is disabled.
.PP
The \*Lstty\*O
utility exits with one of the following values:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L0\*O"
The terminal options were read or set successfully.
.LI "\*L>0\*O"
An error occurred.
.LE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Writes to standard output all the current settings
for the terminal.
.LI "\*L-f\*O \*Vspecial-device\*O"
Allows you to specify an alternate terminal or tty device.  Normally,
the \*Lstty\*O command works on your standard input.
.LI "\*L-g\*O"
Writes to standard output the current settings in an
unspecified form that can be used as arguments to
another \*Lstty\*O utility on the same system.
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Lstty\*O
function is expected to be POSIX 1003.2 compatible.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Ltty\*O(1).
.PP
Functions:  \*Lcurses\*O(3), \*Lioctl\*O(2), \*Ltcsetattr\*O(3),
\*Ltcgetattr\*O(3), \*Lttyname\*O(3).
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Removed .h from termios(4) per QAR 6070.
Files:  \*Ltermios\*O(4).
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.EQ
delim off
.EN
