.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: style.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/12/10 10:01:27 $
.\"
.\" SCCSID: @(#)style.1 10.1 3/12/92
.TH style 1
.SH NAME
\*Lstyle\*O \- Analyzes surface characteristics of a document.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Lstyle\*O [\*L-ml\*O] [\*L-mm\*O] [\*L-a\*O] [\*L-e\*O] [\*L-l \*Vnum\*O]
[\*L-r \*Vnum\*O] [\*L-p\*O] [\*L-P\*O] \*Vfile\*O ...
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Displays all sentences with their length and readability index.
.LI "\*L-e\*O"
Displays all sentences that begin with an expletive.
.LI "\*L-l \*Vnum\*O"
Displays all sentences longer than \*Vnum\*O.
.LI "\*L-ml\*O"
Skips lists in the document.
.LI "\*L-mm\*O"
Overrides the default \*L-ms\*O macro package.
.LI "\*L-P\*O"
Displays parts of speech of the words in the document.
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Displays all sentences that contain a passive verb.
.LI "\*L-r \*Vnum\*O"
Displays all sentences whose readability index is greater than \*Vnum\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "style program"
.iX "readability" "analyzing"
.iX "passive verb" "finding"
The \*Lstyle\*O command analyzes the surface characteristics of the
writing style of a document.  It reports on readability, sentence length and
structure, word length and usage, verb type, and sentence openers.
Because \*Lstyle\*O runs \*Lderoff\*O before looking at the text, formatting
header files should be included as part of the input.  The default macro
package \*L-ms\*O may be overridden with the \*L-mm\*O flag.  The
\*L-ml\*O flag, which causes \*Lderoff\*O to skip lists, should be used if
the document contains many lists that contain non-sentences.
Use the other flags to locate sentences with certain characteristics.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
Use of non-standard formatting macros may cause incorrect sentence breaks.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lderoff\*O(1), \*Ldiction\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
