.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: su.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/15 17:43:57 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" 
.\" @(#)su.1  6.2 (Berkeley) 5/5/86
.\" 
.TH su 1
.SH NAME
\*Lsu\*O \- Substitutes user ID temporarily
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lsu\*O
\*O[\*L\-f\*O]
|
\*O[\*L\-c\*O \*Vcommand\*O]
|
\*O[\*L\-\*O]
\*O[\*Vuser\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-c\*O \*Vcommand\*O"
Executes the specified command in the user's shell.
.LI "\*L\-f\*O"
Prevents the user's shell initialization file from being executed
by passing the \*L\-f\*O option to the \*Vuser\*O's shell,
thus making \*Lsu\*O start up faster.
.LI "\*L\-\*O"
Simulates a full login by executing the commands in either
the \*L.cshrc\*O and \*L.login\*O files for \*Lcsh\*O or
the \*L.profile\*O file for \*Lsh\*O and
\*Lksh\*O and by setting the current working directory to
the \*Vuser\*O's home directory.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "su command"
.iX "privileges" "obtaining those of another user"
.iX "users" "privileges"
.PP
The \*Lsu\*O command demands the password of the specified
\*Vuser\*O, and if it is given, changes to that
\*Vuser\*O and invokes the \*Vuser\*O's shell
without changing the current directory.
.PP
The user environment is unchanged except for \*LHOME\*O and \*LSHELL\*O,
which are taken from the password file for the user being substituted
(see \*Lenviron\*O).  The new user ID stays in force until the shell exits.
.PP
If no user ID is specified, \*Lsu\*O attempts to transition to the
\*Lroot\*O account.
.PP
The process created as a result of the \*Lsu\*O does not assume the
privilege environment of the destination user; the discretionary
identity of the process is changed and the privileges are reduced to
the intersection of the two users.  The power you gain is not as great
as that of the superuser on a nonsecure system.
.SS Security Restrictions
The \*Lsu\*O command fails if any lock conditions exist on the target
account.  Specifically, if the destination account was retired,
if the number of unsuccessful login attempts exceeds the maximum
allowed, if the administrative lock was applied, or the password's
lifetime was exceeded, the Information System Security Officer
(ISSO) must unlock the destination account before any user
can log in to it or use \*Lsu\*O to transition to it.
The base privileges of the new process are adjusted to the intersection
of those of the source and destination accounts.  Thus, you cannot
gain any base privileges by using \*Lsu\*O.
Specifically, \*Lsu\*O to \*Lroot\*O does not gain the power that it
once did.
.PP
Note that command authorizations are checked against the process login
user ID.  Thus, using \*Lsu\*O to transition to another account does not
gain you that account's command authorizations.  Similarly, the new
process's kernel authorizations are set to the intersection of the
source and target account.  The system's audit subsystem audits your
actions relative to the login user ID.
.SS Security Configuration
The \*Lsu\*O command is modified in all security configurations of
the system.
.SH "SECURITY NOTE"
.PP
This security-sensitive command uses the SIA (Security
Integration Architecture) routine
as an interface to the security mechanisms. See the
\*Lmatrix.conf\*O(4)
reference page for more information.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Files:  \*Lsialog\*O(4)
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcsh\*O(1), \*Lksh\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
