.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: sum.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/15 20:47:49 $
.\"
.\"
.\"  THIS OSF SOURCE FILE HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY DLIBRARY IN OSP
.\"  If you need information about the changes, send mail 
.\"  to dlibrary@ravine at Digital Equipment Corp.
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH sum 1
.SH NAME
\*Lsum\*O \- Displays the checksum and block count of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lsum\*O
\*O[\*L-o | r\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O
\&...]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lsum\*O command reads \*Vfile\*O and calculates a 16-bit
checksum and the number of blocks in the file.  If the \*Vfile\*O
argument is omitted, \*Lsum\*O reads standard input.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-o\*O"
Uses an algorithm to compute the checksum using word-by-word computation.
.LI "\*L-r\*O"
Uses an alternate algorithm to compute
the checksum (rigorous byte-by-byte computation rather than the
word-by-word computation).  This is the default.
.LE
.PP
Note that the default is no longer the word-by-word computation algorithm.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "sum command"
.iX "block count"
.iX "files" "checksum"
.iX "files" "block count"
.iX "displaying" "checksum"
.iX "displaying" "block count"
.iX "checksum"
.PP
The checksum and number of blocks are written to standard output.
The \*Lsum\*O command is generally used to determine if
a file that was copied or communicated over transmission lines
is an exact copy of the original. The \*Lsum\*O command writes the space used in
512-byte units.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Added Environment Note.
.SS "System V Compatibility"
The root of the directory tree that contains the commands modified
for SVID2 compliance is specified in the file \*L/etc/svid2_path\*O. You
can use \*L/etc/svid2_profile\*O as the basis for, or to include
in, your \*L.profile\*O.  The file \*L/etc/svid2_profile\*O reads
\*L/etc/svid2_path\*O and
sets the first entries in the \*LPATH\*O environment variable so that
the modified SVID2 commands are found first.
.PP
The checksum algorithms for the default \*Lsum\*O command and the
SVID2 compliant \*Lsum\*O command are reversed.  The SVID2
compliant \*Lsum\*O command uses the word-by-word algorithm by
default and uses the byte-by-byte algorithm if you specify
the \-\*Lr\*O option on the command line.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To display the checksum of \*Ldatafile\*O and the number of blocks in this
file, enter:
.iS
sum  datafile
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
If the checksum of \*Ldatafile\*O is 1605
and if the file contains 3 blocks, \*Lsum\*O displays:
.oS
1605 3 datafile
\*O\c
.oE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lwc\*O(1).
.SS Compatibility Notes
.IP
The default algorithm is no longer the word-by-word
computation algorithm.  It was changed to the 4.3BSD default algorithm.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
