.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tail.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/30 22:01:29 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH tail 1
.SH NAME
\*Ltail\*O \- Writes a file to standard output, beginning at a specified point
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ltail\*O [\*L-f | -r \*O] [\*V-c number\*O | \*V-n number\*O][\*Vfile\*O]
.PP
\*Ltail\*O [\*L+\*Vnumber\*O | \*V-number\*O][\*Vunit\*O][\*L\-f | -r][\*Vfile\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Ltail\*O command writes the named file (standard
input by default) to standard output, beginning at a point you specify.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-c number\*O"
Displays the remainder of the file from the starting point \*Lnumber\*O
where \*Lnumber\*O is measured in bytes. The sign of \*Lnumber\*O
affects the location in the file at which to begin the copying:
.VL 4m
.LI "+ (plus sign)"
Copying begins relative to the beginning of the file.
.LI "- (minus sign)"
Copying begins relative to the end of the file.
.LI "no sign"
Copying begins relative to the end of the file. The origin for counting
is 1, that is, \*L-c +1\*O represents the first byte of the file, \*L-c
-1\*O the last.
.LE
.LI "\*L-f\*O"
Does not end after it copies the last line of the input file if the
input file is not read from a pipe, but enters an endless loop in which
it sleeps for a second and then attempts to read and copy further records
from the input file.  Thus, it can be used to monitor the growth of a
file being written by another process.  Has no effect if specified with
\*L-r\*O.
.LI "\*L-n\*O \*Vnumber\*O"
Displays remainder of file from the starting point \*Vnumber\*O where
\*Lnumber\*O is measured in lines.  The sign of
\*Vnumber\*O affects the location in the file, measured in lines,
to begin the copying:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L+\*O (plus) sign"
Copying begins relative to the beginning of the file.
.LI "\*L-\*O (minus) sign"
Copying begins relative to the end of the file.
.LI "no sign"
Copying begins relative to the end of the file. The origin for counting
is 1, that is, \*L-n +1\*O represents the first byte of the file, \*L-n
-1\*O the last.
.LE
.LI "\*L-r\*O"
Causes \*Ltail\*O to print lines from the end of the file
in reverse order.  The default for \*L-r\*O is to print the
entire file this way.  Overrides \*L-f\*O.
.LI "\*L\-[\*Vnumber\*O]l"
.LI "\*L\-[\*Vnumber\*O]b"
.LI "\*L\-[\*Vnumber\*O]k"
.LI "\*L\-[\*Vnumber\*O]c"
.LI "\*L\-[\*Vnumber\*O]m"
Begins reading \*Vnumber\*O lines (\*Ll\*O),
512-byte blocks (\*Lb\*O), kilobyte blocks (\*Lk\*O),
characters (\*Lc\*O and \*Lm\*O) from the end of the input.
The \*Lm\*O argument counts multi-byte characters as single-byte characters, while
\*Lc\*O counts characters byte-by-byte but does not break multi-byte
characters.
.IP
The default \*Vunit\*O is \*Ll\*O for lines. The default
\*Vnumber\*O is 10 for all units.
.IP
.LI "\*L\(pl\*O[\*Vnumber\*O]\*Ll\*O"
.LI "\*L\(pl\*O[\*Vnumber\*O]\*Lb\*O"
.LI "\*L\(pl\*O[\*Vnumber\*O]\*Lk\*O"
.LI "\*L\(pl\*O[\*Vnumber\*O]\*Lc\*O"
.LI "\*L\(pl\*O[\*Vnumber\*O]\*Lm\*O"
Begins reading \*Vnumber\*O lines (\*Ll\*O), 512-byte
blocks (\*Lb\*O), 1-kilobyte blocks (\*Lk\*O),
or characters (\*Lc\*O and \*Lm\*O) from the beginning of the input.
The \*Lm\*O argument counts multi-byte characters as single-byte characters, while
\*Lc\*O counts characters byte-by-byte but does not break multi-byte
characters.
.IP
The default \*Vunit\*O is \*Ll\*O for lines. The default
\*Vnumber\*O is 10 for all units.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "tail command"
.iX "displaying" "end of a file"
.iX "files" "displaying end"
.iX "displaying" "end of a file"
.iX "files" "displaying the end"
.PP
If you do not specify \*L-f\*O, \*L-r\*O, \*L-\*Vnumber\*O, or
\*L+\*Vnumber\*O, \*Ltail\*O begins reading 10 lines before the end of
the file.  \*L-\*O (end of input) is the default starting point, \*Ll\*O
(lines) is the default \*Vunit\*O, and 10 is the default \*Vnumber\*O.
.PP
By specifying \*L+\*O, you can direct \*Ltail\*O to
read from the beginning of the file.  By specifying a \*Vnumber\*O or a
\*Vunit\*O, or both,
you can change the point at which \*Ltail\*O begins reading.
.PP
The \*Vunit\*O argument can specify lines, blocks, or characters.  The
\*Ltail\*O command can begin reading \*Vnumber\*O (10 by default) units
from either the end or the beginning of the file.
.PP
The block size is either 512 bytes or 1 kilobyte.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To display the last 10 lines of a file named \*Lnotes\*O, enter:
.iS
tail  notes
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To specify how far from the end to start, enter:
.iS
tail  -20  notes
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This displays the last \*L20\*O lines of \*Lnotes\*O.
.LI
To specify how far from the beginning to start, enter:
.iS
tail  \(pl200c  notes  \(br  more
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This displays \*Lnotes\*O a page at a time, starting with
the \*L200\*Oth character from the beginning.
.LI
To follow the growth of a file named \*Laccounts\*O, enter:
.iX "files" "monitoring growth"
.iS
tail  -1  -f  accounts
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This displays the last line of \*Laccounts\*O.  Once every second,
\*Ltail\*O displays any lines that have been added to the file.
This continues until stopped by pressing the Interrupt key sequence.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcat\*O(1), \*Lhead\*O(1), \*Lmore\*O(1)/\*Lpage\*O(1),
\*Lpg\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
