.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: talk.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/25 17:30:46 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH talk 1
.SH NAME
\*Ltalk\*O \- Converses with another user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ltalk\*O
\*Vuser\*O
\*O[\*Vtty_name\*O]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "talk command"
.iX "users" "communications"
.iX "communication" "between users"
.PP
The \*Ltalk\*O command allows two users to enter text
simultaneously into windows
displayed on each other's terminals.  To initiate a conversation, one user
executes \*Ltalk\*O and specifies the second user's username.
If the second user is on a remote host, the name of the host must be
specified in one of the following ways:
.iS
\*Vuser\*L@\*Vhost\*O
\*Vhost\*L!\*Vuser\*O
\*Vhost\*L\&.\*Vuser\*O
\*Vhost\*L:\*Vuser\*O
.iE
.PP
When using full domain names, the only valid form for specifying the
user and host is \*Vuser\*L@\*Vhost\*O.  For
example, \*Landy@host17.dev.abc.com\*O initiates a conversation
with user \*Landy\*O at host \*Lhost17\*O in the
\*Ldev.abc.com\*O domain.
.PP
When the first user initiates the conversation, a message is sent to the
second user.  If the first user also specifies
\*Vtty_name\*O, the invitation message is sent to the specified
terminal.  Otherwise, the invitation is sent to
the terminal on the remote host on which the second user first logged in.
Once this invitation is received, \*Ltalk\*O displays
two windows on the first user's terminal and displays progress messages
until the second user responds to the initial message.
.PP
If the second user wants to have the conversation, the second user also
executes \*Ltalk\*O from any terminal and specifies the first user's account
name and hostname, if appropriate.  If the second user accepts the
invitation, \*Ltalk\*O displays two windows on the second
user's terminal.  One
window displays what is typed by the local user; the other
displays what is typed by the remote user.  To end the conversation
and close the connection, either user can press the Interrupt key
sequence.
.PP
If the second user does not want to permit \*Ltalk\*O invitations, that
user should issue the \*Lmesg n\*O command.
.PP
If the recipient is logged in more than once,
the \*Vtty_name\*O argument can be used to indicate the appropriate
terminal name.  If \*Vtty_name\*O is not specified, the \*Ltalk\*O
message is displayed on one or more accessible terminals in use by the
recipient.  The format of \*Vtty_name\*O is the same as that returned
by the \*Lwho\*O command.
.PP
The \*Ltalk\*O command processes characters as follows:
.ML
.LI
Typing the \*L<alert>\*O character alerts the recipient's terminal.
.LI
Typing \*L<Ctrl-L>\*O causes the sender's screen regions to be
refreshed.
.LI
Typing the Erase and Kill characters affects the sender's terminal
as described on the \*Ltermios\*O reference page.
.LI
Typing the Interrupt or End-of-File characters terminates the local
\*Ltalk\*O program.  Once the \*Ltalk\*O session has been terminated
on one side, the other side of the session is notified that the
\*Ltalk\*O session has been terminated and this side
can do nothing except exit.
.LI
Typing characters from \*LLC_TYPE\*O classifications \*Lprint\*O or
\*Lspace\*O causes those characters to be sent to the recipient's
terminal.
.LE
.PP
The \*Ltalk\*O command fails when a user lacks the appropriate
privileges to perform the requested action.
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL 3m
.LI
If \*Ljohn\*O at \*Lhost1\*O wants to talk to
\*Lfred\*O, who is logged in on \*Lhost2\*O,
\*Ljohn\*O enters:
.iS
$ talk fred@host2
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The following message is displayed on \*Lfred\*O's terminal:
.oS
Message from TalkDaemon@host1 at 15:16...
talk: connection requested by john@host1.
talk: respond with: talk john@host1
\*O\c
.oE
.IP
To accept the invitation, \*Lfred\*O enters:
.iS
$ talk john@host1
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To talk to \*Lfred\*O only if he is logged in on the console at
\*Lhost2\*O, enter:
.iS
$ talk fred@host2 console
\*O\c
.iE
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Ltalk\*O command uses the \*Ltalk\*O 4.3BSD protocol, which
is not compatible with 4.2BSD versions of \*Ltalk\*O.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lmesg\*O(1), \*Lnamed\*O(8), \*Lstty\*O(1), \*Ltalkd\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
