.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tarsets.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:41:59 $
.\"
.TH tarsets 1
.SH NAME
\*Ltarsets\*O \- subset kitting command file generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*L/usr/lbin/tarsets\*O
[ \*L\-d\*O ]
\*Vpathname\*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "tarsets command"
.iX "Software kits" "producing"
The
\*Ltarsets\*O
command is used by the
\*Lkits\*O
utility to produce software kits for use with the
\*Lsetld\*O(8)
utility.  The
\*Ltarsets\*O
command reads subset inventory records from standard input and writes a
command procedure to standard output.  This command procedure contains
the commands required to create subset images for the subset described
in the input.
.PP
The
\*Vpathname\*O
argument specifies the root directory for the file hierarchy containing
the files to be kitted in the subset.
.PP
All error diagnostics are written to a file named
\*Lstderr\*O
in the current directory.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.TP
.B \-d
Enable debugging.  Debug trace diagnostics are written to
\*Lts.dbg\*O
in the current directory.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The output command procedure produces multiple
\*Ltar\*O
files.  Each
\*Ltar\*O
file has a goal size of 400Kb.  The command procedure is modified
automatically to produce a single subset image when
\*Ltarsets\*O
is called from the
\*Lkits\*O
utility.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The
\*Ltarsets\*O
command returns an exit status of 0 unless a hard link referenced in
the inventory cannot be found in the input hierarchy, in which case the
status is 1.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BI "Invalid Record on line " n
.br
.RS 5
The input record on line
\*Vn\*O
is not in subset inventory format.
.RE
.PP
.IB path1 -> path2 " link reference unresolved."
.br
.RS 5
The input record for
\*Vpath1\*O
contains a pointer to
\*Vpath2\*O
in the referent field and
\*Vpath2\*O
does not appear in the inventory.  This error indicates that
\*Vpath2\*O
was deleted from the inventory after being created by the
\*Vinvcutter\*O
command.
.RE
.PP
.BI "Warning: file " filename " is " n "blocks too large for diskette"
.br
.RS 5
This is an obsolete message.  It can be ignored.
.RE
.PP
.B Writing Oversized File Volume...
.br
.RS 5
This is an obsolete message.  It can be ignored.
.RE
.PP
.IB i " Blocks, " j " Chars on Volume " k
.br
.RS 5
This is an informational message.  The number
\*Vj\*O
is the number of characters in the command written
to the output to produce volume
\*Vk\*O.
.RE
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 8
stderr
Diagnostic output
.TP 8
ts.dbg
Debug diagnostic output
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  invcutter(1), kits(1), setld(8)
.PP
File formats:  stl_inv(4)
.PP
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
