.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tbl.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/12/17 13:16:40 $
.\"
.TH tbl 1
.SH NAME
\*Ltbl\*O \- formats tables for nroff
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Ltbl\*O [\*Vfile\*O ... ]
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-TX\*O"
Produces output without fractional line motions.
You use this flag when the destination output device or
printer or post-filter cannot handle fractional line motions.
.LI "\*L\-ms\*O"
Reads in \*Lms\*O macros prior to table formatting.
.LI "\*L\-mm\*O"
Reads in the \*Lmm\*O macros prior to table formatting, if your system
has the \*L*roff\*O \*Lmm\*O macros installed.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "tbl preprocessor"
.iX "nroff text processor" "tbl preprocessor"
.iX "table" "formatting"
The \*Ltbl\*O preprocessor is used for formatting tables for \*Lnroff\*O.
.\" and other *roff document processing systems.
When you run \*Ltbl\*O, the input files are copied to standard output,
except for lines between the .TS (table start) and .TE (table end)
command lines.  All lines between the .TS and .TE command lines are
assumed to describe a table and are reformatted.
.PP
If no arguments are given, \*Ltbl\*O reads from standard input, so it can
be used as a filter.  When \*Ltbl\*O is used with \*Lneqn\*O or other
equation formatting \*L*roff\*O tools, the \*Ltbl\*O command should be
invoked first to minimize the volume of data passed through the pipes.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example shows a table that has been coded using \*Ltbl\*O
macros and the results
after you run \*Ltbl\*O to format the table.
.PP
.oS
\&.TS
tab(@);
\&c s s
\&c c s
\&c c c
\&l n n.
\&Household Population
\&Town@Households
\&@Number@Size
\&Bedminster@789@3.26
\&Bernards Twp.@3087@3.74
\&Bernardsville@2018@3.30
\&Bound Brook@3425@3.04
\&Branchburg@1644@3.49
\&Bridgewater@7897@3.81
\&Far Hills@240@3.19
\&.TE
.oE
.PP
When formatted by \*Ltbl\*O and then \*Lnroff\*O, the output is as
follows:
.PP
.oS
    Household Population
    Town         Households
                Number   Size
Bedminster        789    3.26
Bernards Twp.    3087    3.74
Bernardsville    2018    3.30
Bound Brook      3425    3.04
Branchburg       1644    3.49
Bridgewater      7897    3.81
Far Hills         240    3.19
.oE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lneqn\*O(1), \*Lnroff\*O(1), \*Lms\*O(5)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
