.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.1
.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1990 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"     @(#)tcopy.1	6.4 (Berkeley) 6/24/90
.\"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Corrected coding in the NAME and SYNOPSIS sections.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.TH tcopy 1
.SH NAME
.PP
.iX "tcopy command"
\*Ltcopy\*0 \- Copies magnetic tapes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ltcopy\*O
[\*L\-cv\*O] 
[\*L\-s\ \*Vmax-blocksize\*O] 
[\*Vsource\*O] 
[\*Vdestination\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*L\-c\*O"
Verifies whether the source and the destination tapes are identical
after copying the source tape into the destination tape.
.LI "\*L-v\*O"
Verifies whether the source and the destination tapes are identical.
.LI "\*L\-s\*O \*Vmax-blocksize\*O"
Sets the maximum allowed tape block size.  The default is 128 Kbytes.   
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
If a source and a destination tape are specified then the \*Ltcopy\*O command
copies the source tape into the destination tape.
.PP
If only a source tape is specified then \*Ltcopy\*O prints information
about the contents of the tape.  For each file in the tape, \*Ltcopy\*O
prints the number of records of each block size.  Tape \*L/dev/rmt0h\*O is the
default.
.PP
The \*Ltcopy\*O command assumes that there are two tape marks at the end
of the source tape when copying or reading, and two tape marks at the end
of both tapes when verifying.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To copy \*L/dev/rmt0h\*O into \*L/dev/rmt1h\*O, enter:
.iS
tcopy /dev/rmt0h /dev/rmt1h
.iE
.LI
To obtain information about \*L/dev/rmt1h\*O, enter:
.iS
tcopy /dev/rmt1h
.iE
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION:
.PP
Commands: \*Lmt\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
