.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tee.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/15 00:19:11 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH tee 1
.SH NAME
\*Ltee\*O \- Displays the output of a program and copies it into a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ltee\*O [\*L\-ai\*O] \*Vfile\*O ...
.sE
.PP
The \*Ltee\*O
command reads standard input and writes both to standard output,
and to each specified \*Vfile\*O.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Adds the output to the end of \*Vfile\*O instead of writing over it.
.LI "\*L-i\*O"
Ignores the \*LSIGINT\*O signal.
.LE
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "tee command"
.iX "displaying" "program output"
.iX "programs" "displaying output"
.PP
The \*Ltee\*O command is useful when you wish to view program output as it is displayed,
and also want to save it in a file.
The \*Ltee\*O command can accept up to 20 file arguments.
The \*Ltee\*O command does not buffer output.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To view and save the output from a command at the same time, enter:
.iS
lint  program.c | tee  program.lint
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This displays the standard output of the
command \*Llint program.c\*O at the terminal, and at the same
time saves a copy of it in the file \*Lprogram.lint\*O.
If \*Lprogram.lint\*O already exists, it is deleted and replaced.
.LI
To display and append to a file, enter:
.iS
lint  program.c | tee  -a  program.lint
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This displays the standard output of \*Llint program.c\*O
at the terminal and at the same time appends a copy of it to the end
of \*Lprogram.lint\*O.  If the file \*Lprogram.lint\*O does not
exist, it is created.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lecho\*O(1), \*Lscript\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
