.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: telnet.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/10 18:48:06 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
.TH telnet 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ltelnet\*O \- Provides the TELNET interface for logging in to a remote host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "telnet command"
.iX "protocols" "TELNET"
.iX "login" "remote"
.iX "remote" "login"
.sS
\*Ltelnet\*O
\*O[\*L-d\*O]
\*O[\*L-l\*O
\*Vuser\*O]
\*O[\*L-n\*O
\*Vtrace_file\*O]
\*O[\*Vhost\*O]
\*O[\*Vport\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Ltelnet\*O command implements the TELNET protocol, which allows remote
login to other hosts.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-d\*O"
Turns debugging mode on.
.LI "\*L-l\*O \*Vuser\*O"
Sends \*Vuser\*O to the remote system as the value for the variable
\*LUSER\*O when connecting to the remote system, if the remote
system understands the \*LENVIRON\*O option.
This flag can also be used with the \*Lopen\*O command.
.LI "\*L-n\*O \*Vtrace_file\*O"
Records network trace information in the file specified by \*Vtrace_file\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Ltelnet\*O command uses the Transmission Control Protocol/Internet
Protocol (TCP/IP) to communicate with other hosts in the network.
The \*Ltelnet\*O command operates in two different modes:  \*Vcommand mode\*O
and \*Vinput mode\*O.  When issued without arguments,
\*Ltelnet\*O enters command mode, as indicated by the \*Ctelnet>\*O
prompt.  Command mode can also be entered by typing the
\*Ltelnet\*O
Escape character (initially \*L^]\*O).
When in command mode, the normal terminal editing conventions are available.
.gL "TCP/IP"
.gL "Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP)"
.PP
In command mode, the subcommands listed in the
\*LSUBCOMMANDS\*O section can be entered.  Some of these
subcommands return you to the remote
session upon completion.  For those that do not, pressing
\*L<Return>\*O returns you to the remote session.
.PP
If \*Ltelnet\*O is issued with arguments, it performs an \*Lopen\*O
subcommand with those arguments, then enters input mode.
Once a connection is opened,
.sp
\*Ltelnet\*O attempts to enable the TELNET \*LLINEMODE\*O
option.  If this fails, \*Ltelnet\*O
reverts to one of two input modes:
either character-at-a-time
or old line-by-line mode, depending on what the remote system supports.
.PP
When \*LLINEMODE\*O is enabled, character processing is done on the
local system, under the control of the remote system.  When input
editing or character echoing is to be disabled, the remote system
relays that information.  The remote system also relays
changes to any special characters that happen on the remote
system, so that they can take effect on the local system.
.PP
In character-at-a-time mode, most
text typed is immediately sent to the remote host for processing.
.PP
In old line-by-line mode, all text is echoed locally,
and (in most cases) only completed lines are sent to the remote host.
The local echo character (initially \*L^E\*O) can be used
to turn off and on the local echo
(this would mostly be used to enter passwords
without the password being echoed).
.PP
If the \*LLINEMODE\*O option is enabled, or if the
\*Llocalchars\*O
toggle is \*Ltrue\*O (the default for old line-by-line; see below),
the user's
\*Lquit\*O,
\*Lintr\*O,
and
\*Lflush\*O
characters are trapped locally, and sent as
TELNET
protocol sequences to the remote side.
If \*LLINEMODE\*O has ever been enabled, then the user's
\*Lsusp\*O
and
\*Leof\*O
are also sent as
TELNET
protocol sequences,
and
\*Lquit\*O
is sent as a TELNET \*LABORT\*O instead of \*LBRK\*O.
There are options (see
\*Ltoggle\*O
\*Lautoflush\*O
and
\*Ltoggle\*O
\*Lautosynch\*O
below)
that cause this action to flush subsequent output to the terminal
(until the remote host acknowledges the TELNET
sequence) and flush previous terminal input
(in the case of
\*Lquit\*O
and
\*Lintr\*O).
.\"Removed Digital specific reference
.\" Begin Digital specific information
.PP
The \*Ltelnet\*O command uses the default Type-of-Service value
recommended by RFC1060, which is as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Ltelnet\*O"
Low delay
.LE
.PP
You can configure this value by specifying it in the
\*L/etc/iptos\*O file. For more information, see \*Liptos\*O(4).
.\" End Digital specific information.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.PP
For each of the subcommands in the following list, you only need to type
enough letters to uniquely identify the command.  (For example,
\*Lq\*O is sufficient for the \*Lquit\*O subcommand.)
This is also true for the arguments to the \*Lmode\*O, \*Lset\*O,
\*Ltoggle\*O, \*Lunset\*O, \*Lslc\*O, and \*Ldisplay\*O commands.
.PP
The subcommands for \*Ltelnet\*O are as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L?\*O [\*Vsubcommand\*O]"
Requests help on \*Ltelnet\*O.  Without arguments, \*Ltelnet\*O prints
a help summary.  If a subcommand is specified, \*Ltelnet\*O
prints help information for just that subcommand.
.LI "\*Lclose\*O"
Closes the \*Ltelnet\*O connection and returns to command mode.
.LI "\*Ldisplay\*O [\*Vargument\*O]"
Displays all of the \*Lset\*O and \*Ltoggle\*O values
if no argument is specified; otherwise, lists only those
values that match \*Vargument\*O.
.LI "\*Lenviron\*O \*Vargument\*O \&..."
Manipulates the variables that can be sent through the \*Ltelnet\*O
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Fixed 'initial' per QAR 6104.
\*LENVIRON\*O option.  The initial set of variables is taken from the
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
user's environment, with only the \*LUSER\*O and \*LDISPLAY\*O
variables being exported.
.IP
Valid arguments for the \*Lenviron\*O subcommand are as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Ldefine\*O \*Vvariable\*O \*Vvalue\*O"
Defines \*Vvariable\*O to have the specified value.  Any variables
defined by this command are automatically exported.  \*Vvalue\*O
can be enclosed in single or double quotes so that tabs and spaces
can be included.
.LI "\*Lundefine\*O \*Vvariable\*O"
Removes \*Vvariable\*O from the list of environment variables.
.LI "\*Lexport\*O \*Vvariable\*O"
Marks \*Vvariable\*O to be exported to the remote side.
.LI "\*Lunexport\*O \*Vvariable\*O"
Marks \*Vvariable\*O to not be exported unless explicitly asked for
by the remote side.
.LI "\*Llist\*O"
Lists the current set of environment variables.  Those marked with an
\*L*\*O (asterisk) are sent automatically; other variables are
sent only if explicitly requested.
.LE
.LI "\*Lmode\*O \*Vtype\*O"
The
\*Vtype\*O
option is one of several options, depending on the state of the
TELNET session.
The remote host is asked for permission to go into the requested mode.
If the remote host is capable of entering that mode, the requested
mode is entered.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L?\*O"
Prints out help information for the \*Lmode\*O command.
.LI "\*Lcharacter\*O"
Disables the
\*LLINEMODE\*O
option, or, if the remote side does not understand the
\*LLINEMODE\*O
option, enters character-at-a-time mode.
.LI "\*Lline\*O"
Enables the
\*LLINEMODE\*O
option, or, if the remote side does not understand the
\*LLINEMODE\*O
option, then attempts to enter old line-by-line mode.
.LI "\*Lisig (-isig)\*O"
Attempts to enable (disable) the \*LTRAPSIG\*O mode of the
\*LLINEMODE\*O option.
This requires that the \*LLINEMODE\*O option be enabled.
.LI "\*Ledit (-edit)\*O"
Attempts to enable (disable) the \*LEDIT\*O mode of the
\*LLINEMODE\*O option.
This requires that the \*LLINEMODE\*O option be enabled.
.LI "\*Lsofttabs (-softtabs)\*O"
Attempts to enable (disable) the \*LSOFT_TAB\*O mode of the
\*LLINEMODE\*O option.  This requires that the \*LLINEMODE\*O option
be enabled.
.LI "\*Llitecho (-litecho)\*O"
Attempts to enable (disable) the \*LLIT_ECHO\*O mode of the \*LLINEMODE\*O
option.  This requires that the \*LLINEMODE\*O option be enabled.
.LE
.LI "\*Lopen\*O \*Vhost\*O [\*Vport\*O]"
Opens a connection to the specified host.  The
host specification can be either a hostname or an Internet address
in dotted decimal form.  If no port is given, \*Ltelnet\*O
attempts to contact a TELNET server at the default port.
.IP
When connecting to a nonstandard port, \*Ltelnet\*O omits any
automatic initiation of TELNET options.  When the port number is
preceded by a \- (dash), the initial option negotiation is done.
After establishing a connection, the \*L\&.telnetrc\*O file in the
user's home directory is opened.
.IP
Lines beginning with a # (number sign)
are comment lines.  Blank lines are ignored.  Lines that begin without
empty spaces are the start of a machine entry.  The first thing on the
line is the name of the machine to which the user is connected.  The
rest of the line and successive lines that begin with empty spaces are
assumed to be \*Ltelnet\*O commands and are processed as if they
were typed in manually to the
.sp
\*Ctelnet>\*O command prompt.
.LI "\*Lquit\*O"
Closes a TELNET connection and exits \*Ltelnet\*O.  An
End-of-File in command mode also closes the connection
and exits.
.LI "\*Lsend\*O \*Vargument\*O ..."
Sends one or more arguments (special character sequences) to
the remote host.  (Not all hosts will respond to all of these sequences.)
Multiple arguments are separated by spaces.  The following
arguments can be used:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L?\*O"
Prints help information for the \*Lsend\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*Labort\*O"
Sends the TELNET \*LABORT\*O (Abort Processes) sequence.
.LI "\*Lao\*O"
Sends the TELNET \*LAO\*O (Abort Output) sequence, which causes
the remote host to flush all output from the remote system to the
local terminal.
.LI "\*Layt\*O"
Sends the TELNET \*LAYT\*O (Are You There) sequence, to which the
remote system can respond.
.LI "\*Lbrk\*O"
Sends the TELNET \*LBRK\*O (Break) sequence, which
might have significance to the remote system.
.LI "\*Lec\*O"
Sends the TELNET \*LEC\*O (Erase Character) sequence, which causes
the remote host to erase the last character entered.
.LI "\*Lel\*O"
Sends the TELNET \*LEL\*O (Erase Line) sequence, which causes the
remote system to erase the line currently being entered.
.LI "\*Leof\*O"
Sends the TELNET \*LEOF\*O (End-of-File) sequence.
.LI "\*Leor\*O"
Sends the TELNET \*LEOR\*O (End-of-Record) sequence.
.LI "\*Lescape\*O"
Sends the current TELNET Escape character (\*L^]\*O by default).
.LI "\*Lga\*O"
Sends the TELNET \*LGA\*O (Go Ahead) sequence, which provides the
remote system with a mechanism to signal the local system to return
control to the user.
.LI "\*Lgetstatus\*O"
If the remote side supports the TELNET \*LSTATUS\*O command,
\*Lgetstatus\*O sends the subnegotiation to request that the server
send its current option status.
.LI "\*Lip\*O"
Sends the TELNET \*LIP\*O (Interrupt Process) sequence, which
causes the remote system to terminate the currently running process.
.LI "\*Lnop\*O"
Sends the TELNET \*LNOP\*O (No Operation) sequence.
.LI "\*Lsusp\*O"
Sends the TELNET \*LSUSP\*O (Suspend Process) sequence.
.LI "\*Lsynch\*O"
Sends the TELNET \*LSYNC\*O sequence, which causes the remote
system to discard all previously typed input that has not yet
been read.  This sequence is sent as TCP urgent data.
.LE
.LI "\*Lset\*O \*Vvariable\*O \*Vvalue\*O"
Sets a \*Ltelnet\*O variable to the specified
value or to \*Ltrue\*O.  The \*Loff\*O special value turns
off the function associated with the variable name entered;
this is equivalent to using the \*Lunset\*O command.
The \*Lunset\*O command disables or sets to \*Lfalse\*O any of the
specified functions.  The values of variables can be queried with
the \*Ldisplay\*O subcommand.  The variables that can
be set or unset, but not toggled, are listed here.  In addition, any
of the variables for the \*Ltoggle\*O subcommand can be explicitly set
or unset by using the \*Lset\*O and \*Lunset\*O commands.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L?\*O"
Displays the legal
\*Lset\*O (\*Lunset\*O)
commands.
.LI "\*Lecho\*O"
Toggles between enabling and suppressing
local echo of entered characters.  Local echo is used
for normal processing, while suppressing
the echo is used for entering text that should not appear on the display,
such as passwords.  This variable is
initially \*L^E\*O, and can only be used in line-by-line mode.
.LI "\*Leof\*O"
Defines the End-of-File character for \*Ltelnet\*O.  When
\*Ltelnet\*O is in line-by-line mode, entering the \*Leof\*O
character as the first character on a line sends the character to the
remote host.  The initial value for the \*Leof\*O character
is the local terminal's End-of-File character.
.LI "\*Lerase\*O"
Defines the erase character for \*Ltelnet\*O.  When \*Ltelnet\*O is in
character-at-a-time mode and \*Llocalchars\*O is \*Ltrue\*O,
typing the erase character sends the TELNET \*LEC\*O sequence to
the remote host.  The initial value for the erase character
is the local terminal's erase character.
.LI "\*Lescape\*O"
Specifies the \*Ltelnet\*O escape character
(initially \*L^]\*O), which puts
\*Ltelnet\*O into
command mode when connected to a remote host.
.LI "\*Lflushoutput\*O"
Defines the flush character for \*Ltelnet\*O.  When
\*Llocalchars\*O is \*Ltrue\*O, typing the \*Lflushoutput\*O
character sends the TELNET \*LAO\*O sequence to the remote host.
The initial value for the flush character is the terminal's flush
character.
.LI "\*Lforw1\*O"
.LI "\*Lforw2\*O"
Defines alternate end-of-line character.
.LI "\*Linterrupt\*O"
Defines the interrupt character for \*Ltelnet\*O.  When
\*Llocalchars\*O is \*Ltrue\*O, typing the \*Linterrupt\*O
character sends the TELNET \*LIP\*O sequence to the remote host.
The initial value for the \*Linterrupt\*O character is the local
terminal's interrupt character.
.LI "\*Lkill\*O"
Defines the kill character for \*Ltelnet\*O.  When \*Ltelnet\*O is in
character-at-a-time mode and \*Llocalchars\*O is \*Ltrue\*O,
typing the \*Lkill\*O character sends the TELNET \*LEL\*O sequence to
the remote host.  The initial value for the \*Lkill\*O character
is the local terminal's kill character.
.LI "\*Llnext\*O"
Defines the \*Llnext\*O (literal next) character for \*Ltelnet\*O.
If \*Ltelnet\*O is operating in old line-by-line mode and
\*Llocalchars\*O is \*Ltrue\*O, this character is taken to be the
terminal's lnext character.
The initial value for the \*Llnext\*O character is the local
terminal's \*Llnext\*O character.
.LI "\*Lquit\*O"
Defines the quit character for \*Ltelnet\*O.  When \*Llocalchars\*O
is \*Ltrue\*O, typing the \*Lquit\*O character sends the TELNET
\*LBRK\*O sequence to the remote host.  The initial value for the \*Lquit\*O
character is the local terminal's quit character.
.LI "\*Lreprint\*O"
Defines the terminal's reprint character, if
\*Ltelnet\*O
is operating in \*LLINEMODE\*O or old line-by-line mode.
The initial value for the \*Lreprint\*O character is the terminal's
reprint character.
.LI "\*Lstart\*O"
Defines the terminal's start character,
if the TELNET \*LTOGGLE-FLOW-CONTROL\*O
option was enabled.  The initial value
for the \*Lstart\*O character is the terminal's start character.
.LI "\*Lstop\*O"
Defines the terminal's stop character,
if the TELNET \*LTOGGLE-FLOW-CONTROL\*O option was enabled.
The initial value for the \*Lstop\*O character is the terminal's
stop character.
.LI "\*Lsusp\*O"
Sends a TELNET \*LSUSP\*O sequence (see
\*Lsend susp\*O) to the remote host,
if
\*Ltelnet\*O
is in
\*Llocalchars\*O
mode, or \*LLINEMODE\*O is enabled, and the
\*Lsuspend\*O
character is typed. The initial value
for the \*Lsuspend\*O character is the terminal's suspend character.
.LI "\*Ltracefile\*O"
Specifies the file to which the output, caused by \*Lnetdata\*O or
\*Loption\*O tracing being \*Ltrue\*O, is written.  If it is set to
a - (dash),
then tracing information is written to standard output (the default).
.LI "\*Lworderase\*O"
Defines the terminal's \*Lworderase\*O character,
if
\*Ltelnet\*O
is operating in \*LLINEMODE\*O
or old line-by-line mode.  The initial value for the
\*Lworderase\*O
character is taken to be the terminal's \*Lworderase\*O character.
.LE
.LI "\*Lslc\*O \*Vstate\*O"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Removed extra 'the' per QAR 6887.
Sets or changes the state of the special
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
characters when the TELNET \*LLINEMODE\*O option
is enabled (Set Local Characters).  Special characters
are characters that get mapped to TELNET commands sequences (like
\*Lip\*O
or
\*Lquit\*O)
or line editing characters (like
\*Lerase\*O
and
\*Lkill\*O).
By default, the local special characters are exported.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lexport\*O"
Switches to the local defaults for the special characters.  The
local default characters are those of the local terminal at
the time when
\*Ltelnet\*O
was started.
.LI "\*Limport\*O"
Switches to the remote defaults for the special characters.
The remote default characters are those of the remote system
at the time when the TELNET connection was established.
.LI "\*Lcheck\*O"
Verifies the current settings for the current special characters.
The remote side is requested to send all the current special
character settings, and if there are any discrepancies with
the local side, the local side switches to the remote value.
.LI "\*L?\*O"
Prints out help information for the
\*Lslc\*O
command.
.LE
.LI "\*Lstatus\*O"
Shows the current status of \*Ltelnet\*O.  This includes the host
to which you are connected, as well as the current mode.
.LI "\*Ltoggle\*O \*Vargument\*O ..."
Toggles one or more arguments that control how \*Ltelnet\*O responds
to events.  Possible values are \*Ltrue\*O and \*Lfalse\*O.
These options can be explicitly set to \*Ltrue\*O or \*Lfalse\*O with
the \*Lset\*O and \*Lunset\*O subcommands.
Multiple arguments are separated by spaces.  The \*Ldisplay\*O
subcommand can be used to query the current setting of each argument.
.IP
The following arguments can be used:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L?\*O"
Displays valid arguments to \*Ltoggle\*O.
.LI "\*Lautoflush\*O"
If \*Lautoflush\*O and \*Llocalchars\*O are both
\*Ltrue\*O and the \*LAO\*O, interrupt,
and quit characters are recognized and
transformed into TELNET sequences, \*Ltelnet\*O does not display
any data on the user's terminal until the remote system acknowledges
(with a TELNET \*Ltiming mark\*O option) that it has
processed those TELNET sequences.
The initial value of \*Lautoflush\*O is \*Ltrue\*O if the terminal
has not done an \*Lstty noflsh\*O, and \*Lfalse\*O if it has.
.LI "\*Lautosynch\*O"
If \*Lautosynch\*O and \*Llocalchars\*O are both
\*Ltrue\*O, then typing the interrupt or quit character sends that
character's
TELNET sequence, followed by the TELNET \*LSYNC\*O
sequence.  This
procedure causes the remote host to discard all previously typed
input until both of the \*Ltelnet\*O sequences are read and acted
upon.  The initial value of this toggle is \*Lfalse\*O.
.LI "\*Lbinary\*O"
Enables or disables the
TELNET \*LBINARY\*O
option on both input and output.
.LI "\*Linbinary\*O"
Enables or disables the
TELNET \*LBINARY\*O
option on input.
.LI "\*Loutbinary\*O"
Enables or disables the
TELNET \*LBINARY\*O
option on output.
.LI "\*Lcrlf\*O"
Toggles carriage-return feature.
When \*Ltrue\*O, carriage-returns are sent as carriage-return/linefeed.
When \*Lfalse\*O, carriage-returns are sent as carriage-return/NULL.
The initial value for this toggle is \*Lfalse\*O.
.LI "\*Lcrmod\*O"
Toggles carriage-return mode.  When set to \*Ltrue\*O, most carriage-return
characters received from the remote host are mapped into a
carriage-return followed by a linefeed.  This mode does not affect
the characters typed by the user, only those received from the
remote host.  This mode is useful when the remote host sends only
a carriage-return and not a linefeed.  The initial value of this
toggle is \*Lfalse\*O.
.LI "\*Ldebug\*O"
Toggles debugging at the socket level.  This argument can only
be entered by a user with superuser privileges.  The initial value
of this toggle is \*Lfalse\*O.
.LI "\*Llocalchars\*O"
Determines the handling of \*Ltelnet\*O special characters.  When
this value is \*Ltrue\*O, the erase, flush,
interrupt, kill, and quit
characters are recognized locally and transformed into the appropriate
TELNET control sequences (\*LEC\*O, \*LAO\*O, \*LIP\*O, \*LBRK\*O,
and \*LEL\*O, respectively).
When this value is \*Lfalse\*O, these special characters are sent to the
remote host as literal characters.
The initial value of \*Llocalchars\*O is \*Ltrue\*O in line-by-line
mode and \*Lfalse\*O in character-at-a-time mode.
.IP
When the \*LLINEMODE\*O option is enabled, the value of
\*Llocalchars\*O is ignored, and assumed to always be \*Ltrue\*O.  If
\*LLINEMODE\*O has ever been enabled, \*Lquit\*O is sent as
\*Labort\*O, and \*Leof\*O and \*Lsuspend\*O are sent as \*Leof\*O and
\*Lsusp\*O (see the \*Lsend\*O subcommand).
.LI "\*Lnetdata\*O"
Toggles the display of all network data (in hexadecimal format).
The data is written to standard output unless a \*Vtrace_file\*O is
specified with the \*L-n\*O flag on the \*Ltelnet\*O command line.
The initial value of this toggle is \*Lfalse\*O.
.LI "\*Loptions\*O"
Toggles the display of internal TELNET protocol processing options, such
as terminal negotiation and local or remote echo of characters.
The initial value of this toggle is \*Lfalse\*O, indicating that the
current options are not displayed.
.LI "\*Lprettydump\*O"
When the \*Lnetdata\*O toggle is enabled and \*Lprettydump\*O is also
enabled, the output from the \*Lnetdata\*O toggle appears in a more
readable format.  Spaces are placed between the characters in the
output, and the beginning of any TELNET escape sequence is preceded by
an * (asterisk) to aid in locating it.
.LI "\*Ltermdata\*O"
Toggles printing of hexadecimal terminal data (used for debugging).
.LE
.LI "\*Lz\*O"
Suspends TELNET execution and returns you to
your original login shell.
This subcommand works only when you are using \*Lcsh\*O or \*Lksh\*O.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.AL 3m
.LI
To log in to \*Lhost1\*O and do terminal type negotiation, enter:
.iS
telnet host1
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
Information similar to the following is displayed on your screen:
.oS
Trying ...
Connected to host1
Escape character is ^]

login: \(ul
\*O\c
.oE
.LI
To log in to remote host \*Lhost3\*O
and then check the status of the \*Ltelnet\*O program, enter:
.iS
\*C$\*L telnet host3
.iE
.oS
Trying \&. \&. \&.
Connected to host3
Escape character is ^]

login: \(ul
\*O\c
.oE
.IP
Enter your login ID and password when you are prompted to do so.
Press \*L^]\*O to receive the \*Ctelnet>\*O prompt.
Enter the \*Lstatus\*O subcommand at the prompt.  Information similar to
the following is then displayed on your screen:
.oS
Connected to host3.
Operating in single character mode.
Escape character is '^]'.
\(ul \*VPress \*L<Return>\*O
\*C$\(ul
\*O\c
.oE
.IP
Upon completion of the \*Lstatus\*O subcommand, you
must press \*L<Return>\*O to return to the remote prompt.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 7m
.LI "\*L~/\&.telnetrc\*O"
User-customized \*Ltelnet\*O startup values.
.LE
.SH NOTES
.AL 3m
.LI
On some remote systems, \*Lecho\*O has to be turned off manually when
in old line-by-line mode.
.LI
In old line-by-line mode or \*LLINEMODE\*O, the terminal's End-of-File
character is only recognized (and sent to the remote system)
when it is the first character on a line.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lenv\*O(1), \*Lprintenv\*O(1), \*Lrexecd\*O(8),
\*Lrlogin\*O(1), \*Lrsh\*O(1), \*Ltelnetd\*O(8)
.PP
Files: \*Liptos\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
