.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: textddif.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/12/22 18:43:06 $
.\" 
.TH textddif 1
.SH Name
textddif \- convert text formatted files to DDIF formatted files
.SH Syntax
.B textddif
[\-m \f2message_log\fP] [\-O \f2optionfile\fP] [\-o \f2outputfile\fP] 
[\-p \f2options_line\fP]... [\-d \f2extension\fP] 
[\f2inputfile\fP [\f2outputfile\fP [\f2logfile\fP]]]
.SH Description
.NXR "textddif command"
The
.cs
textddif
command reads a text formatted file from
.I inputfile
and writes a DDIF file to
.I outputfile.
To convert from \f2file.text\fP to \f2file.ddif\fP type:
.PP
\f3textddif file.text file.ddif.\f1
.PP
If you do not supply an input file, or if you supply a
minus sign (\-) as an
argument,
.cs
textddif
reads the text file from standard input. 
If you do not supply an output file, 
or if a minus sign (\-) is encountered as an argument,
.cs
textddif
writes the DDIF file to standard output.

You can also invoke the 
.cs
textddif
conversion with the 
.cs
cdoc(1)
command when you use that command and specify 
the option \-s \f2text\fP.
.PP
The 
.cs
textddif 
command maps line breaks and form feeds to DDIF directives.
One or more contiguous blank lines are interpreted as end-of-paragraph
markers. The text input file does not lose any information because 
no structure information is contained in a text file. 
The information in the intermediate representation of the input file
maps directly to the DDIF output file.
.PP
The 
.cs
textddif 
command converts
all nonprinting characters to space characters.
For example, characters introducing ANSI escape characters
are converted to space characters.  There is no attempt to interpret
ANSI escape sequences.
.SH Options
.TP 5
.B \-m \f2message_log\fP
Enables enhanced messaging and logs all messages to \f2message_log\fP or,
if '-' is specified, to \f2standard error\fP in place of the \f2message_log\fP. 
If you do not specify this option, only serious errors are reported.
.TP
.B \-O \f2optionfile\fP
Specifies the name of the options file containing options for this
converter. There are currently no options for this converter.
.TP
.B \-o \f2outputfile\fP
Specifies the name of the output file. Included in the command syntax
for compatibility with the 
.cs
cdoc 
command.
.TP
.B \-p \f2options_line\fP
Allows you to specify options on command line. Has the same
effect as specifying an options file for this converter. 
You can specify up to 100 options.
.TP
.B \-d \f2extension\fP
Allows the specification of a default file extension for compatibility 
with other operating systems. 
.SH See Also
cdoc(1), cda(4), cda_msg(4), ddif(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
