.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tftp.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/07/22 13:35:17 $
.\" 
...\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" 
.TH tftp 1
.iX "tftp command"
.iX "pipes"
.iX "protocols" "Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP)
.iX "Trivial File Transfer Protocol"
.iX "files" "transferring"
.iX "transferring files"
.SH NAME
.PP 
\*Ltftp\*O - Provides the Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Ltftp\*O
\*O[\*Vremote_host\*O]
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP 
The \*Ltftp\*O command transfers files between hosts using TFTP.
Because TFTP is a minimal file transfer protocol, the
\*Ltftp\*O command does not provide all of the
features described under the \*Lftp\*O command.
For example, \*Ltftp\*O does not provide subcommands to
list remote files or change directories at the remote host, and limited file
access privileges are given to the remote TFTP server.
Note that the \*Ltftp\*O command is not available when your host is
operating in controlled access (secure) mode.
.PP 
The remote host must have a \*Ltftpd\*O server started by its
\*Linetd\*O server and have
an account defined that limits the access of \*Ltftpd\*O.
Use the \*Ltftpd\*O command to set up the TFTP environment
and the \*Lnobody\*O account.
.PP 
The \*Ltftp\*O command has two forms:  \*Vinteractive\*O
form and \*Vcommand line\*O form.  In the interactive form, \*Ltftp\*O
is issued alone or with a \*Vhost\*O argument that specifies
the default host to use for file transfers during this session.
You can also specify a port for the \*Ltftp\*O connection
to use.  When you enter the interactive
form, the \*Ctftp>\*O prompt appears.  In the command line form,
you specify command arguments on the command line,
and no prompt appears.  The \*Ltftp\*O command can overwrite a file,
but prompts you before doing so.
.PP 
When transferring data to a remote host, the transferred
data is placed in the directory specified by the \*Vremote_file\*O argument.
\*Vremote_file\*O must be a fully specified filename, and
the remote file must both exist and have write permission set for
others.  The \*Ltftp\*O command attempts to write the
data to the specified file.  However, if
the remote TFTP server does not have the appropriate privileges to
write the remote file or if the file does not already exist, the transfer fails.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.PP 
\*Ltftp\*O subcommands can be entered in either
their interactive form or in their command line form.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L?\*O [\*Vsubcommand\*O]"
.LI "\*Lhelp\*O [\*Vsubcommand\*O]" 
Displays help information.  If a subcommand is specified,
only information about that subcommand is displayed.
.LI "\*Lascii\*O" 
Synonym for the \*Lmode ascii\*O subcommand.
.LI "\*Lbinary\*O" 
Synonym for the \*Lmode binary\*O subcommand.
This subcommand is used in the interactive mode.  The \*Limage\*O mode is
the same as \*Lmode binary\*O, but is used on the command line.
.LI "\*Lconnect\*O \*Vhost\*O [\*Vport\*O]" 
Sets the remote host, and optionally the port,
for file transfers.  Because the TFTP protocol does not maintain
connections between transfers, the \*Lconnect\*O subcommand
does not create a connection to \*Vhost\*O, but stores the settings
for transfer operations.  Because the remote host can be
specified as part of the \*Lget\*O or \*Lput\*O subcommands,
which overrides any host previously specified,
the \*Lconnect\*O subcommand is not required.
.LI "\*Lget\*O \*Vremote_file\*O [\*Vlocal_file\*O]" 
.LI "\*Lget\*O \*Vremote_file\*O [\*Vremote_file\*O \&.\&.\&.]" 
Transfers a file or set of files from the remote host to the local
host.  Each of the \*Vremote_file\*O arguments can be specified in
one of the following two ways:
.ML
.LI
As a file that exists on the remote host, if a default
host was already specified.
.LI
As \*Vhost\*L:\*Vfile\*O, where \*Vhost\*O
is the remote host and \*Vfile\*O is the name of the file to
copy to the local system.  If this form of the argument is used,
the last host specified becomes the default host for
later transfers in this \*Ltftp\*O session.
.LE  
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Added to satisfy OSF_QAR 03207.
.IP
In either case, \*Vremote_file\*O must be a fully-specified
filename.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.LI "\*Lhash\*O"
Toggles hash marks.
.LI "\*Lmode\*O \*Vtype\*O" 
Sets the transfer mode to
\*Lascii\*O or \*Lbinary\*O.  A transfer mode of \*Lascii\*O
is the default.
.LI "\*Loctet\*O" 
Sets mode to \*Loctet\*O.
.LI "\*Lput\*O \*Vlocal_file\*O [\*Vremote_file\*O]" 
.LI "\*Lput\*O \*Vlocal_file\*O [\*Vlocal_file\*O\&.\&.\&.] \*Vremote_directory\*O" 
Transfers a file or set of files from the local host onto the remote
host.  The \*Vremote_directory\*O and \*Vremote_file\*O arguments
can be specified in one of the following two ways:
.ML
.LI
As a file or directory that exists on the remote host, if a default
host was already specified.
.LI
As \*Vhost\*L:\*Vremote_file\*O, where \*Vhost\*O
is the remote host and \*Vremote_file\*O is the name of the file or
directory on the remote system.  If this form of the argument is used,
the last host specified becomes the default host for
later transfers in this \*Ltftp\*O session.
.PP
In either of these cases, the remote filename or directory name must
be a full pathname, even if the local and remote directories
have the same name.
If a remote directory is specified, the remote host is assumed
to use UNIX pathname syntax.
.LE  
.LI "\*Lquit\*O"
Exits \*Ltftp\*O.  An End-of-File also exits the program.
.LI "\*Lrate\*O" 
Displays transfer rate information.
.LI "\*Lrexmt\*O \*Vvalue\*O" 
Defines the retransmission time-out for each packet, in seconds.
.LI "\*Lstatus\*O" 
Shows the current status of \*Ltftp\*O, including the
current transfer mode (\*Lascii\*O or \*Lbinary\*O),
connection status, time-out value, and so on.
.LI "\*Ltimeout\*O \*Vvalue\*O" 
Sets the total transmission time-out to the number of seconds
specified by \*Vvalue\*O.
.LI "\*Ltrace\*O" 
Turns packet tracing on or off.
.LI "\*Lverbose\*O" 
Turns verbose mode, which displays additional information during file
transfer, on or off.
.LE 
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
To enter \*Ltftp\*O, check the current status, connect to
\*Lhost1\*O, and transfer the file \*Lupdate\*O from
\*Lhost1\*O to the local host, enter:
.iS
\*C$\*O tftp
\*Ctftp>\*L status
.iE
.oS
Not connected.
Mode: netascii	Verbose: off	Tracing: off
Rexmt\(ulinterval: 5 seconds, Max-timeout: 25 seconds
.oE
.iS
\*Ctftp>\*L connect host1
\*Ctftp>\*L get /u/alice/update update
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The \*Lget\*O subcommand transfers the file \*Lupdate\*O from the
remote host to your local host.
Note that directory \*L/u/alice\*O on the remote host must have
read permission set for others.
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 7m
.LI "\*L/etc/hosts\*O"
Defines the address of the local host,
and specifies the names and addresses of remote hosts.
.LI "\*L/etc/services\*O" 
Defines the sockets and protocols used for Internet services.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lftp\*O(1), \*Lftpd\*O(8), \*Linetd\*O(8),
\*Lrcp\*O(1), \*Lsyslogd\*O(8), \*Ltftpd\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
