.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tic.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/26 20:20:58 $
.\" 
...\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" 
.TH tic 1
.iX "tic command"
.iX "translating" "terminfo files"
.iX "terminfo file" "translating"
.SH NAME
.PP 
\*Ltic\*O - Translates \*Lterminfo\*O files from source to compiled format
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Ltic\*O
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Made the 'number' specifier optional per QAR 4874. OSF has the QAR.
\*O[\*L-v\*O[\*Vnumber\*O]]
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
\*O[\*Vfile\*O\&...]
.sE
.PP
The \*Ltic\*O command translates \*Lterminfo\*O \*Vfile\*Os from the
source format into the compiled format.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Made the 'number' specifier optional per QAR 4874. OSF has the QAR.
.LI "\*L-v\*O[\*Vnumber\*O]"
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
Writes trace information on the progress of \*Ltic\*O. The
\*Vnumber\*O parameter is an integer that increases the level of 
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION -- OSF already knows.
the verbosity.  If \*Vnumber\*O is omitted, the default is 1.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION -- OSF already knows.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP 
If no \*Vfile\*O is specified, \*Ltic\*O reads standard input.
.PP 
The \*Ltic\*O command places the
results in the \*L/usr/share/lib/terminfo\*O directory.  If the
\*LTERMINFO\*O environment variable is set, the results are placed
there instead of in \*L/usr/share/lib/terminfo\*O.
.PP 
The \*Ltic\*O command compiles all \*Lterminfo\*O descriptions in
\*Vfile\*Os. When \*Ltic\*O finds a \*Luse=\*O field, it
searches first the current file, then the
\*L\&./terminfo\&.src\*O master file.
.PP 
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Changed the beginning of the sentence per QAR 4874.
The size of a compiled entry cannot exceed 4096 bytes and the name 
.\" End Digital-specific information
field cannot exceed 128 bytes.
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 14m
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/terminfo/?/*\*O"
Terminal information database.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Functions:  \*Lcurses\*O(3).
.PP 
Files:  \*Lterminfo\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
