.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: time.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/15 21:14:11 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH time 1
.SH NAME
\*Ltime\*O \- Times the execution of a command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.sS
\*Ltime\*O
\*O[\*L-p\*O]
\*Vcommand\*O
\*O[\*Vargument\*O \&...]
.sE
.PP
The \*Ltime\*O command prints the elapsed time during the execution of
a command, the time spent in the
system, and the time spent in execution of the command on
the diagnostic output system.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Writes the timing output to standard error.  This is the default.
.LE
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "time command"
.iX "timing commands"
.iX "commands" "timing"
.iX "elapsed time"
.iX "execution" "time"
.iX "time" "command execution"
.PP
The \*Ltime\*O command prints the elapsed time during the execution of a command, the
time spent in the system, and the time spent in execution of the command on the
diagnostic output system. Time is reported in seconds.
.PP
The \*Ltime\*O command (with a different format) is also built into \*Lcsh\*O.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To measure the time required to run a program, enter:
.iS
time a.out
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This runs the program \*La.out\*O and writes to the
standard error output the amount of real, system, and user time that it uses:
.oS
real	10.5
user	 0.3
sys	 3.6
\*O\c
.oE
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
The \*Ltime\*O command returns the following exit values:
.VL 6m
.LI "1-125"
An error occurred.
.LI "126"
The utility was found but could not be invoked.
.LI "127"
The utility could not be found.
.LE
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:  \*Ltimes\*O(3).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
