.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tip.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/10 11:39:03 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
.TH tip 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ltip\*O - Connects to a remote system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ltip\*O
\*O[\*L-v\*O]
\*O[\*L-\*Vbaud_rate\*O]
\*Vsystem\*O
|
\*Vtelephone_number\*O
.sE
.PP
The \*Ltip\*O command connects to a remote system and allows you to
work on the remote system as if logged in directly.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-v\*O"
Displays sets of variables (see \*LVariables\*O) as they are read
from the \*L\&.tiprc\*O file.
.LI "\*L-\*Vbaud_rate\*O"
Overrides the default baud rate, which is 1200 baud.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "tip command"
.iX "connecting to a remote system"
.iX "remote" "system" "connecting to"
.iX "systems" "remote" "connecting to"
.iX "systems" "connecting to a remote"
You must have a login account
on the remote system to use the \*Ltip\*O command.
.PP
Either the \*Vsystem\*O argument or the \*Vtelephone_number\*O
argument is required.  The \*Vsystem\*O argument specifies the
name of a remote system to be contacted over a direct or modem connection.
The \*Vtelephone_number\*O argument specifies the number to dial over a
modem connection.
.PP
The actions of the \*Ltip\*O command can be controlled using flags,
escape signals, and variables.  The \*Ltip\*O command also uses the
\*L/etc/remote\*O file to find out how to contact a remote system
and discover the escape-send sequence to use when communicating
with that system.
.PP
When \*Ltip\*O prompts for a response,
edit the line as you type using the standard
Erase and Kill keys.  Entering a null line in response to a prompt
or pressing the Interrupt key sequence will abort the
\*Ltip\*O dialog and return you to the remote system.
.PP
The \*Ltip\*O command uses lock files in the
\*L/var/spool/locks\*O directory to lock
devices against multiple access.
.PP
You can use the \*Ltip\*O command to transfer files to and from the
remote system.  Several variables work together to control file
transfers.  File transfers normally use tandem mode to control the
flow of data.  If the remote
system does not support tandem mode, set the \*Lechocheck\*O variable
to \*Lon\*O to cause \*Ltip\*O
to synchronize with the remote system after transmitting each character.
When transferring files with the \*L~>\*O and \*L~<\*O commands,
use the \*Leofread\*O and \*Leofwrite\*O
variables to specify the end of a file when writing, and
recognize the end of a file when reading.
.PP
If the \*Lverbose\*O variable is set to \*Lon\*O, the \*Ltip\*O command:
.ML
.LI
Writes a running count of the number of lines transferred during a
file transfer.
.LI
Writes messages indicating its actions as it dials a telephone number.
.LE
.PP
You can use scripting to record the conversations you have with the
\*Ltip\*O command.  Use the \*Lscript\*O variable to start scripting.
.SS Variables
The \*Ltip\*O command uses \*Vvariables\*O that control its operation.
These variables can be numeric, string, character, or Boolean
values.  Some of these variables can be changed by any user who can
run the \*Ltip\*O command.  However, the following variables can be
changed only by a user with superuser authority:  \*Lbaudrate\*O,
\*Ldialtimeout\*O, \*Lhost\*O, \*Lphones\*O, and \*Lremote\*O.
.PP
Variables can be initialized at run time in the \*L$HOME/\&.tiprc\*O
file.  Additionally, you can display and set the variables while
already running the \*Ltip\*O command by using the \*L~s\*O command.
.PP
Certain common variables have abbreviations.
.PP
Following are the common variables, their types and abbreviations,
and their default values.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lbeautify\*O"
(Boolean; abbreviated \*Lbe\*O)
Discards unprintable characters when a session is being scripted.
Does not discard characters specified with the \*Lexceptions\*O
variable.  The default is \*Lon\*O.
.LI "\*Lbaudrate\*O"
(Numeric; abbreviated \*Lba\*O)
Specifies the baud rate of the connection.
.IP
The \*Lbaudrate\*O setting can only be changed by someone with superuser
authority.
.LI "\*Ldialtimeout\*O"
(Numeric; abbreviated \*Ldial\*O)
Specifies the time (in seconds)
that \*Ltip\*O waits for a connection when dialing a telephone number.
The default is 60 seconds.
.IP
The \*Ldialtimeout\*O setting can only be changed by someone with superuser
authority.
.LI "\*Lechocheck\*O"
(Boolean; abbreviated \*Lec\*O)
Instructs \*Ltip\*O to synchronize
with the remote host during a file transfer by
awaiting the echo of the last character transmitted before
transmitting the next character.  The default is \*Loff\*O.
.LI "\*Leofread\*O"
(String; abbreviated \*Leofr\*O)
Specifies the set of characters that signifies an end-of-transmission
during a remote to local (\*L~<\*O or \*L~t\*O) file transfer.
.LI "\*Leofwrite\*O"
(String; abbreviated \*Leofw\*O)
Specifies the string that is sent to indicate end-of-transmission during
a local to remote (\*L~>\*O or \*L~p\*O) file transfer command.
.LI "\*Leol\*O"
(String; no abbreviation)
Specifies the string that indicates the end of a line.
\*Ltip\*O recognizes escape signals only when they follow an
end-of-line string.
.LI "\*Lescape\*O"
(Character; abbreviated \*Les\*O)
Specifies the command prefix character for escape signals.
The default value is \*L~\*O (tilde).
.LI "\*Lexceptions\*O"
(Strings; abbreviated \*Lex\*O)
Specifies the set of characters that are not discarded,
even when the \*Lbeautify\*O switch is set \*Lon\*O.  The string
\*L\et\en\ef\eb\*O is the default.
.LI "\*Lforce\*O"
(Character; abbreviated \*Lfo\*O)
Specifies the character that is used to force literal data transmissions
during binary transfers.  The character \*L^P\*O is the default.
Literal data transmissions are \*Loff\*O until the user types the
character specified by the \*Lforce\*O variable.
.LI "\*Lframesize\*O"
(Numeric; abbreviated \*Lfr\*O)
Specifies the number of bytes to buffer between file system
writes when receiving files from the remote system.
.LI "\*Lhost\*O"
(String; abbreviated \*Lho\*O)
Specifies the name of the remote system to which you are connected.
.IP
The \*Lhost\*O setting can only be changed by someone with superuser
authority.
.LI "\*Lprompt\*O"
(Character; abbreviated \*Lpr\*O)
Specifies the character that indicates the end of the line on the remote
host.  This character is used to synchronize during
data transfers.  The \*Ltip\*O command counts lines transferred
during a file transfer, based on the number of times it
receives the prompt character.  The \*L\en\*O character is the default.
.LI "\*Lraise\*O"
(Boolean; abbreviated \*Lra\*O)
When \*Lon\*O, instructs the \*Ltip\*O command to
convert all lowercase letters to uppercase before transmitting them
to the remote system.  The default is \*Loff\*O.
.LI "\*Lraisechar\*O"
(Character; abbreviated \*Lrc\*O)
Specifies a character that is used to toggle uppercase conversion.
The default value is \*L^A\*O.
.LI "\*Lrecord\*O"
(String; abbreviated \*Lrec\*O)
Specifies the name of the file in which the \*Ltip\*O command
records the session script.
The default is the \*Ltip.record\*O file, which is placed in the
user's current directory on the local system.
.LI "\*Lscript\*O"
(Boolean; abbreviated \*Lsc\*O)
When \*Lon\*O, \*Ltip\*O
records everything transmitted by the remote machine in
a file on the local system.  The filename is specified by the
\*Lrecord\*O variable.  If the \*Lbeautify\*O
switch is \*Lon\*O, only printable ASCII characters
(those between 040 and 0177) will be recorded in the script file.
The \*Lexceptions\*O variable
specifies unprintable characters that will be recorded even if the
\*Lbeautify\*O switch is \*Lon\*O.  The default setting for the
\*Lscript\*O switch is \*Loff\*O.
.LI "\*Ltabexpand\*O"
(Boolean; abbreviated \*Ltab\*O)
Expands tab characters to eight spaces during file transfers.
The default is \*Loff\*O.
.LI "\*Lverbose\*O"
(Boolean; abbreviated \*Lverb\*O)
When \*Lon\*O, \*Ltip\*O
prints messages while dialing, shows the current number
of lines transferred during a file transfer,
and displays other status information about the connection.
The default is \*Lon\*O.
.LI "\*LSHELL\*O"
(String; no abbreviation)
Specifies the type of shell to use for the \*L~!\*O command.  The default
value is \*L/bin/sh\*O, or is taken from the environment.
.LI "\*LHOME\*O"
(String; no abbreviation)
Specifies the home directory to use for the \*L~c\*O command.
The default value is taken from the environment.
.LE
.SS Subcommands
You can use escape signals to instruct \*Ltip\*O to terminate, log
off from the remote system, and transfer files.  Using the escape
character as the first character of the line indicates an escape
signal.  The default escape character is a ~ (tilde).  The
character can be changed using the \*Lescape\*O variable.  All
other typed characters are transmitted directly to the remote
system.  The \*Ltip\*O command recognizes the following escape
signals:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L~^D\*O"
Terminates the connection and exits.  You can still be logged in on the
remote system; if so, you can issue another \*Ltip\*O command to
reconnect to that system.
Depending on the interconnection hardware, it may be necessary to
use \*L~^D\*O to terminate the conversation, even if the normal logout
sequence was used.
.LI "\*L~.\*O"
Same as \*L~^D\*O: terminates the connection and exits.  You can
still be logged in on the
remote system; if so, you can issue another \*Ltip\*O command to
reconnect to that system.
Depending on the interconnection hardware, it may be necessary to
use \*L~.\*O to terminate the conversation, even if the normal logout
sequence was used.
.LI "\*L~c\*O [\*Vdirectory\*O]"
Changes to the directory specified by the \*Ldirectory\*O
variable.  If you do not include the \*Ldirectory\*O variable,
\*Ltip\*O changes to your home directory.
.LI "\*L~!\*O"
Escapes to a shell on the local system.  When you exit from the
shell, you return to the \*Ltip\*O command.
.LI "\*L~>\*O"
Copies file from the local system to the remote system.
\*Ltip\*O prompts you for the name of the local file.
Before executing this command, you should start a command on the remote
system to capture the incoming file as it is sent.  Otherwise, the file
contents are treated as \*Lstdin\*O to the shell running on the remote
system.  Using the \*Lcat >\*V destfile\*O command is recommended where
supported.  The output \*LEOF\*O string sent after the file is
transferred (defined by \*Voe\*O in \*L/etc/remote\*O and
typically \*L^D\*O for UNIX systems) should terminate the command on the
remote system that is capturing the file.
.LI "\*L~<\*O"
Copies file from the remote system to the local system.
\*Ltip\*O prompts you for the command to be executed on the remote
system to list the file to be copied, for example, \*Lcat srcfile\*O.
The copy of the file completes when the local system reads an \*LEOFREAD\*O
character from the remote system.  The local system defines
the \*LEOFREAD\*O character(s) expected from the remote system by the \*Vie\*O
entry in \*L/etc/remote\*O.  (For UNIX systems, this is
usually \*L#\*O, \*L%\*O, or \*L$\*O, the most common prompts for the
different shells.)  The \*LEOFREAD\*O character should be sent to the local
system after the command to list the remote file completes.  The remote
system's prompt character is suggested for the \*LEOFREAD\*O character.
.LI "\*L~p\*O \*Vfrom\*O [\*Vto\*O]"
Sends the \*Vfrom\*O file to a remote host that must support the
\*Lcat\*O command.  The \*Lput\*O command causes the remote system
to run the command string \*Lcat >\*O \*Vto\*O, while \*Ltip\*O
sends it the \*Vfrom\*O file.  If \*Vto\*O is not
specified, the \*Lcat\*O
command uses the name of the \*Vfrom\*O file.  This command
is a special case of the \*L~>\*O command.
.LI "\*L~t\*O \*Vfrom\*O [\*Vto\*O]"
Transfers the \*Vfrom\*O file from a remote system that must support
the \*Lcat\*O command.  As in the \*Lput\*O command, the \*Vto\*O
file defaults to the \*Vfrom\*O filename if it is not specified.
The remote host executes the command string \*Lcat\*O \*Vfrom\*L;echo ^A\*O
to send the file to \*Ltip\*O.  This command is a
special case of the \*L~<\*O command.
.LI "\*L~|\*O"
Pipes the output of a remote command to a local process.
The command string sent to the local system is processed by the shell.
.LI "\*L~$\*O"
Pipes the output from a local process to the remote system.
The command string sent to the remote system is processed by the shell.
.LI "\*L~#\*O"
Sends a \*LBREAK\*O signal to the remote system.
.LI "\*L~s\*O {\*Vvariable\*O=\*Vvalue\*O | [\*L!\*O]\*Vboolean_variable\*O | \*Vvariable\*L?\*O | \*Lall\*O}"
Sets or queries the \*Ltip\*O command variables.
.IP
To display all variables readable by the user, specify \*Lall\*O as
an argument to the \*L~s\*O command.  You can also request the
display of a specific variable by attaching a \*L?\*O (question
mark) to the variable name.  For example, enter the command \*L~s eol?\*O
to display the current end-of-line string.
.IP
Variables can be numeric, string, character, or Boolean values.  To
set a non-Boolean variable, enter the variable name or abbreviation
followed by \*L=\*O (equal sign) and the value.  For example, enter
either \*L~s host=zeus\*O or \*L~s ho=zeus\*O to change the hostname to \*Lzeus\*O.  In the \*L\&.tiprc\*O file, enter \*Lhost=zeus\*O
or \*Lho=zeus\*O.
.IP
To change the value of a Boolean variable, enter the variable name
or abbreviation as an argument to the \*L~s\*O command, or on a line of
the \*L\&.tiprc\*O file.  To reset
the variable to its default value, enter an \*L!\*O (exclamation
point) in front of the name.  For example, enter \*L~s !echocheck\*O
to reset the \*Lechocheck\*O variable to its default value while running
the \*Ltip\*O command.
.IP
You can use a single \*L~s\*O command to set and query multiple
variables.  The set string must not contain any spaces.
.LI "\*L~^Z\*O"
Stops \*Ltip\*O.  The \*L~^Z\*O command is only available with job control.
.LI "\*L~^Y\*O"
Stops the local portion of \*Ltip\*O.  The remote portion, which
displays the output from the remote system, continues to run.
The \*L~^Y\*O command is only available with job control.
.LI "\*L~?\*O"
Displays a list of the escape signals.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL 3m
.LI
To specify a baud rate when making a direct connection, enter:
.iS
tip -300 hera
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This instructs \*Ltip\*O to use a baud rate of 300 when contacting
remote system \*Lhera\*O.
.LI
To connect to a remote system using a modem, enter:
.iS
tip 9,343-2132
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This connects the remote system that is reached by the telephone number
343-2132, after dialing a 9, to reach an outside line.
.LI
To connect directly to a remote system and display
the variables, enter:
.iS
tip -v hera
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The \*L-v\*O flag causes \*Ltip\*O to display the values of the
variables as it reads them from the \*L$HOME/\&.tiprc\*O file.
If the \*L\&.tiprc\*O file contains the following settings:
.iS
sc
be
rec=/u/jimk/callout
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The output from the -v flag is as follows:
.oS
set script
set beautify
set record=/u/jimk/callout
\*O\c
.oE
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/etc/acucap\*O"
Contains automatic call unit descriptions.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/locks/LCK*\*O"
Contains lock files that prevent multiple uses of devices and
multiple calls to systems.
.LI "\*L/etc/remote\*O"
Contains global system descriptions.
.LI "\*L/etc/phones\*O"
Contains global telephone phone number database.
.LI "\*L${REMOTE}\*O"
Contains private system descriptions.
.LI "\*L${PHONES}\*O"
Contains private telephone numbers.
.LI "\*L$HOME/\&.tiprc\*O"
Defines initial settings for the \*Ltip\*O command.
.LI "\*Ltip.record\*O"
Contains the \*Ltip\*O command scripts (default filename).  By
default, stored in the current directory.  You can change the
filename and directory using the \*Lrecord\*O variable.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcu\*O(1), \*Luucp\*O(1).
.PP
Functions: \*Lconnect\*O(2).
.PP
Files:  \*Lacucap\*O(4), \*Lphones\*O(4), \*Lremote\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
