.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: touch.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/07 23:26:09 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH touch 1
.SH NAME
\*Ltouch\*O \- Updates file access and modification times
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ltouch\*O
\*O[\*L\(hyacfm\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyr\ \*Vreference_file\*O\ |\ \*L\(hyt\ \*Vtime\*O]
\*Vfile\*O\ \&...
.sE
.PP
The following older syntax is now maintained for backward compatibility,
but may be withdrawn in future issues:
.sS
\*Ltouch\*O
.sE
.if n .PP
.sS
\*Ltouch\*O
\*O[\*L-acfm\*O]
\*O[\*Vtime\*O]
\*Vfile\*O
\&...
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Changes only the access time.
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Suppresses the creation of the file.
.LI "\*L-f\*O"
Attempts to force the \*Ltouch\*O in spite of read and write
permissions on a file.
\*L-f\*O is actually a dummy flag; it is not used by the \*Ltouch\*O
code, but is recognized by \*Lgetopt()\*O.
.LI "\*L-m\*O"
Changes only the modification time.
.LI "\*L-r \*Vreference_file\*O"
Uses the time of the file named by the pathname
\*Vreference_file\*O instead of the current time. You cannot use
\*L-r\*O and \*L-t\*O together.
.LI "\*L-t \*Vtime\*O"
Uses the specified time instead of the current time.
.IP
The \*Vtime\*O argument is a decimal number in the following form:
.iS
\*O[[\*VCC\*O]\*VYY\*O]\*VMMDDhhmm\*O[\*L.\*VSS\*O]
.iE
The paired decimal numbers in the preceding syntax
line represent the following:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*VCC\*O"
The first two digits of the year (the century)
.LI "\*VYY\*O"
The second two digits of the year (00-99)
.LI "\*VMM\*O"
The month of the year (01-12)
.LI "\*VDD\*O"
The day of the month (01-31)
.LI "\*Vhh\*O"
The hour of the day (00-23)
.LI "\*Vmm\*O"
The minute of the hour (00-59)
.LI "\*VSS\*O"
The second of the minute (00-61)
.LE
.LE
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.PP
Both \*VCC\*O and \*VYY\*O are optional.  If neither is specified, the
current year is assumed.  If \*VYY\*O is specified, but \*VCC\*O is
not, \*VCC\*O is derived as follows:
.IP
If \*VYY\*O is 69-99, \*VCC\*O is 19.
.IP
If \*VYY\*O is 00-68, \*VCC\*O is 20.
.PP
The resulting time is affected by the value of the \*LTZ\*O
environment variable.  If the resulting time value precedes the Epoch,
\*Ltouch\*O exits immediately with an error status.  The range of
valid times past the Epoch extends to at least midnight 1 January 2000
UCT.
.PP
The range for \*VSS\*O is 00-61 rather than 00-59 because of leap
seconds.  If \*VSS\*O is 60 or 61, and the resulting time, as affected
by the \*LTZ\*O environment variable, does not refer to a leap second,
the resulting time is one or two seconds after a time where \*VSS\*O
is 59.  If \*VSS\*O is not given a value, it is assumed to be 0 (zero).
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "touch command"
.iX "files" "access times"
.iX "updating" "file access times"
.iX "modifying file access times"
.iX "files" "modification times"
.PP
The \*Ltouch\*O command updates the access and modification times
of each file or directory named to the one
specified on the command line or to the current time if you do not
specify a time.
You can specify the time with \*L-t\*O or by the time of the reference
file with the \*L-r\*O option.
If you do not specify a time, \*Ltouch\*O uses the current time.  If you
specify a file that does not exist, \*Ltouch\*O creates a file with that
name unless you request otherwise with the \*L-c\*O flag.
.PP
If neither the \*L-a\*O or \*L-m\*O flags are specified, \*Ltouch\*O
behaves as though both of these flags were specified.
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.PP
The \*LLC_TIME\*O environment variable, if
defined, specifies the order of month and day in the date specification
and of hour and minute in the time specification.  Otherwise, these
orders default to \*VMMdd\*O and \*Vhhmm\*O.
The format for the \*Vtime\*O argument is \*VMMddhhmm\*O[\*Vyy\*O].
.PP
The obsolescent format for the \*Vtime\*O argument is \*VMMddhhmm\*O[\*Vyy\*O].
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To update the access and modification times of a file, enter:
.iS
touch  program.c
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This sets the last access and last modification times of
\*Lprogram.c\*O to the current date and time.  If
\*Lprogram.c\*O does not exist, \*Ltouch\*O creates an empty
file with that name.
.LI
To avoid creating a new file, enter:
.iS
touch  -c  program.c
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To update only the modification time, enter:
.iS
touch  -m  *.o
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This updates only the last modification times of the files in the
current directory that end with \*L\&.o\*O.  The \*Ltouch\*O command is often
used in this way to alter the results of the \*Lmake\*O command.
.LI
To explicitly set the access and modification times, enter:
.iS
touch  -c  02171425  program.c
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This sets the access and modification dates to 14:25 (2:25 p.m.)
February 17 of the current year.  (This assumes that you are
using the default format.)
.LI
To touch a file with a numeric filename, include its full pathname or precede
it with \*L\&./\*O, so that the filename is not mistaken for the \*Vtime\*O
argument.  For example, to touch the file \*L123\.abc\*O, enter:
.iS
touch -c ./123.abc
\*O\c
.iE
.LE
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
The return code from \*Ltouch\*O is the number of files whose
times could not be successfully modified (including files that
did not exist and were not created). If no errors occur, the exit status is 0 (zero).
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Ldate\*O(1).
.PP
Functions:  \*Lutime\*O(2).
.PP
Files:  \*Llocale\*O(4).
.PP
.EQ
delim off
.EN
