.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tput.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/26 21:21:00 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH tput 1
.SH NAME
\*Ltput\*O \- Queries the terminal information database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.sS
\*Ltput\*O
\*O[\*L\(hyT\ \*Vtype\*O]
\*Vcapability_name\*O \&.\&.\&.
.sE
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.PP
The \*Ltput\*O command uses the \*Lterminfo\*O database to make
terminal-dependent information available to the shell.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "tput command"
.iX "terminfo file" "querying"
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.PP
The \*Vcapability_name\*O argument indicates the attribute from
a \*Lterminfo\*O file.
The output of \*Ltput\*O is a string if the attribute
\*Vcapability_name\*O is of the type \*Lstring\*O,
or an integer if the attribute is of the type \*Linteger\*O.
If \*Vcapability_name\*O is of the type \*LBoolean\*O,
\*Ltput\*O sets the exit value (\*L0\*O for TRUE, \*L1\*O for
FALSE) and produces no other output.
For more information, see \*Lterminfo\*O(4).
.PP
The following are among the
strings that can be entered as the \*Vcapability_name\*O argument:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lclear\*O"
Displays the clear-screen sequence.
.LI "\*Linit\*O"
Displays the sequence that initializes the user's terminal.
.LI "\*Llongname\*O"
Displays the \*Lterminfo\*O long terminal name.
.LI "\*Lreset\*O"
Displays the sequence that resets the user's terminal.
.LE
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-T \*Vtype\*O"
Specifies the type of terminal.  By default, the value of
\*Vtype\*O is taken from the environment variable \*L$TERM\*O.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL 3m
.LI
To echo the clear-screen sequence for the current terminal, enter:
.iS
tput clear
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To display the number of columns for the current terminal, enter:
.iS
tput cols
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To set and unset the highlight-mode
sequences for the current terminal, enter:
.iS
bold=`tput smso`
unbold=`tput rmso`
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
If you are using \*Lcsh\*O, the argument to the set and unset sequence
must be enclosed in double quotes as follows:
.iS
set bold="`tput smso`"
set unbold="`tput rmso`"
.iE
.IP
Both of these examples can be followed by a prompt:
.iS
echo "${bold}Please  type  in  your  name:${unbold} \ec"
.iE
.LI
To set the exit value to indicate if the current terminal is a
hard-copy terminal, enter:
.iS
tput  hc
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
If you are using \*Lcsh\*O, the exit value for the
preceding example is stored in
\*L$status\*O; otherwise, the exit value is stored in \*L$?\*O.
.LE
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
.\" .zA "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.VL 4m
.LI "0"
FALSE Boolean value or the requested string was written successfully.
.LI "1"
TRUE Boolean value.
.LI "2"
Usage error.
.LI "3"
No information is available about the specified terminal type.
.LI "4"
Capability is invalid.
.LI ">4"
An error occurred.
.LE
.\" .zZ "review, R1.1.2, XPG4"
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 14m
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/terminfo/?/*\*O"
Terminal information database.
.LI "\*L/usr/include/term.h\*O"
Definition files.
.LI "\*L/usr/include/curses.h\*O"
\*Lcurses\*O library definition file.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lstty\*O(1).
.PP
Files:  \*Lterminfo\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
