.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: trbsd.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/09 23:11:33 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.\" deleted empty fields from .TH, added .PP after .SH NAME 
.\" End Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.TH trbsd 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ltrbsd\*O \- Translates characters
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Ltrbsd\*O
\*O[\*L-Acs\*O]
\*Vstring1\*O
\*Vstring2\*O
.PP 
\*Ltrbsd\*O
\*L-d\*O
\*O[\*L-Ac\*O]
\*Vstring1\*O
.sE
.PP
The \*Ltrbsd\*O command copies characters from the standard input
to the standard output with substitution or deletion of selected characters.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-A\*O"
Translates on a byte-by-byte basis.  When you specify this flag,
\*Ltrbsd\*O does not support extended characters.
.LI "\*L-c\*O" 
Complements (inverts) the set of characters in \*Vstring1\*O
with respect to the universe of characters whose codes are \*L001\*O
through \*L377\*O octal
if you specify \*L-A\*O, and all characters if you do not
specify \*L-A\*O.
.LI "\*L-d\*O" 
Deletes all characters in \*Vstring1\*O from output.
.LI "\*L-s\*O" 
Changes characters that are repeated output characters in
\*Vstring2\*O into single characters.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP 
.iX "trbsd command"
.iX "translating" "characters"
.iX "characters" "translating"
Input characters from \*Vstring1\*O are replaced with
the corresponding characters in \*Vstring2\*O.
\*Ltrbsd\*O cannot handle an ASCII \*LNUL\*O (\*L\e000\*O) in
\*Vstring1\*O or \*Vstring2\*O; it always deletes \*LNUL\*O from the
input.
.PP 
The \*Ltr\*O command is a System V compatible version of \*Ltrbsd\*O.
.PP 
Abbreviations such as \*La-z\*O, standing for a string of characters whose
ASCII codes run from character \*La\*O to character \*Lz\*O, inclusive, can
be used to introduce ranges of characters.  Note that brackets are \*Vnot\*O
special characters.
.PP 
Use the escape character \e (backslash) to remove the special meaning from
any character in a string.  Use the \e followed by 1, 2, or 3 octal digits
for the code of a character.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.PP
If a given character appears more than once in \*Vstring1\*O, the
character in \*Vstring2\*O corresponding to its last appearance in
\*Vstring1\*O will be used in the translation.
.\" End Digital-specific Information - CORRECTION
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
.AL 3m 
.LI
To translate braces into parentheses, enter:
.iS
trbsd '{}'  '()'  <textfile  >newfile
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This translates each \*L{\*O (left brace) to a \*L(\*O (left
parenthesis) and
each \*L}\*O (right brace) to a \*L)\*O (right parenthesis).  All
other characters remain unchanged.
.LI
To translate lowercase ASCII characters to uppercase, enter:
.iS
trbsd a-z  A-Z  <textfile  >newfile
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
The two strings can be of different lengths:
.\" End Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.iS
trbsd 0-9 # <textfile >newfile
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This translates each digit to a \*L#\*O
(number sign); if \*Vstring2\*O is too short,
it is padded to the length of \*Vstring1\*O by
duplicating its last character.
.LI
To translate each string of digits to a single \*L#\*O (number
sign), enter:
.iS
trbsd -s 0-9 # <textfile >newfile
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To translate all ASCII characters that are \*Vnot\*O specified, enter:
.\" Begin Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.iS
trbsd -c ' -~' 'A-_' <textfile  >newfile
\*O\c
.iE
.\" End Digital-specific information - CORRECTION
.PP
This translates each nonprinting ASCII character to the
corresponding control key letter (\*L\e001\*O translates
to \*LA\*O, \*L\e002\*O to \*LB\*O, and so on).  ASCII DEL
(\*L\e177\*O), the character that follows \*L~\*O (tilde),
translates to a \*L?\*O (question mark).
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Led\*O(1)/\*Lred\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1), \*Ltr\*O(1).
.PP 
Files:  \*Lascii\*O(5).
.PP 
.\" "Using Internationalization Features" in the 
.EQ
delim off
.EN
