.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tset.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/12/08 13:00:33 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
.TH tset 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Ltset\*O, \*Lreset\*O - Initializes terminals
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "tset command"
.iX "reset command"
.iX "initializing" "terminals"
.iX "terminals" "initializing"
.iX "terminal-dependent processing"
.sS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*Ltset\*O
\*O[\*L-e\*Vcharacter\*O
|
\*L-E\*Vcharacter]
\*O[\*L-i\*Vcharacter\*O]
\*O[\*L-k\*Vcharacter\*O]
\*O[\*L-IQrs\*O]
\*O[\*L-\*O]
.nL
\*O[\*L-m\*O][\*L'\*Vport_type\*O][\*Vbaud_rate\*O][\*L:\*Vtype\*O
\&...\*L']
.in -.5i
.PP
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*Lreset\*O
\*O[\*L-e\*Vcharacter\*O
|
\*L-E\*Vcharacter]
\*O[\*L-i\*Vcharacter\*O]
\*O[\*L-k\*Vcharacter\*O]
\*O[\*L-IQrs\*O]
\*O[\*L-\*O]
.nL
\*O[\*L-m\*O][\*L'\*Vport_type\*O][\*Vbaud_rate\*O][\*L:\*Vtype\*O
\&...\*L']
.in -.5i
.sE
.PP
The \*Ltset\*O command initializes your terminal when you first log
in to a system.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-e\*Vcharacter\*O"
Sets the Erase character to \*Vcharacter\*O on all terminals,
the default being the Backspace character (on many systems, \*L<Ctrl-h>\*O).
\*Vcharacter\*O can be typed directly or
entered using circumflex notation, for example, \*L^H\*O.
.LI "\*L-E\*Vcharacter\*O"
Sets the Erase character to \*Vcharacter\*O only if the terminal can backspace.
.LI "\*L-i\*Vcharacter\*O"
Sets the Interrupt character to \*Vcharacter\*O for all terminals,
the default being <\*LCtrl-c\*O> on many systems.  \*Vcharacter\*O can be
typed directly or entered using circumflex notation, for example, \*L^C\*O.
.LI "\*L-I\*O"
Suppresses transmission of terminal initialization strings.
.LI "\*L-k\*Vcharacter\*O"
Sets the line Kill character to \*Vcharacter\*O on all terminals, the
default being <\*LCtrl-x\*O> on many systems.
The Kill character is left alone if \*L-k\*O is not specified.
\*Vcharacter\*O can be typed directly or entered using
circumflex notation, for example, \*L^X\*O.
.LI "\*L-m\*O \*Vport_type\*O [\*Vbaud_rate\*O]\*L:\*Vtype\*O"
Maps port type \*Vport_type\*O, baud rate \*Vbaud_rate\*O, and
terminal type \*Vtype\*O at startup.  (See \*LDESCRIPTION\*O.)
.LI "\*L-Q\*O"
Suppresses printing of \*CErase set to\*O and \*CKill set to\*O messages.
.LI "\*L-r\*O"
Prints the terminal type on the diagnostic output.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Prints the sequence of \*Lcsh\*O or \*Lsh\*O
commands to initialize the \*LTERM\*O and \*LTERMCAP\*O environment variables,
The shell for which commands are produced depends on the setting
of the \*LSHELL\*O variable.
.LI "\*L-\*O"
Writes the name of the terminal finally decided upon to standard output.
This is intended to be captured by the shell and placed in the
\*LTERM\*O environment variable.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Ltset\*O command first determines the \*Vtype\*O of terminal involved,
and then does necessary initializations and mode settings, including
terminal-dependent processing such as setting Erase and Kill characters,
setting or resetting delays, and sending any sequences needed to properly
initialize the terminal.
.gL "initialization"
.PP
The type of terminal attached to each port is specified by
a parameter to the \*Lgetty\*O running on that port, and passed to subprocesses
through the \*LTERM\*O environment variable.
Type names for terminals can be found in the
\*Ltermcap\*O database.  If a port is not permanently wired to a
specific terminal (not hardwired), it is given an appropriate generic
identifier, such as \*Ldialup\*O.
.PP
When no arguments are specified, \*Ltset\*O
simply reads the terminal type out of the \*LTERM\*O variable
and reinitializes the terminal.
.PP
When used in a start-up script
(\*L\&.profile\*O for \*Lsh\*O users or \*L\&.login\*O
for \*Lcsh\*O users), it is desirable to give information
about the type of terminal
you usually use on ports that are not hardwired.
To specify the terminal type for these ports, specify the \*L-m\*O
(map) flag, followed by the appropriate port type identifier,
an optional baud rate specification,
and the terminal type.  (The effect is
to map from some conditions to a terminal type,
that is, to tell \*Ltset\*O
"If I am on this kind of port, guess that I am on that kind of terminal.")
If more than one mapping is specified, the first applicable mapping prevails.
A missing port type identifier matches all identifiers.
Any of the alternate generic names given in
the \*Ltermcap\*O database can be used for the identifier.
.PP
A baud rate is specified as with \*Lstty\*O, and is compared with the
speed of the diagnostic output (which should be the control terminal).
The baud rate \*Vtest\*O can be any combination of the following characters:
\*L\&.\*O (dot), \*L@\*O (at sign), relational operators such as
\*L<\*O (left angle bracket), and \*L!\*O
(exclamation point).  (\*L@\*O is the
same as "equals", and \*L!\*O
inverts the sense of the test.)  To avoid problems with metacharacters,
place the entire argument to \*L-m\*O
within \*L' '\*O (single quotes); users of \*Lcsh\*O must also put
a \*L\e\*O (backslash) before any \*L!\*O (exclamation point) used here.
.PP
Therefore, entering the following example
causes the terminal type to be set to an adm3a
if the port in use is a dialup at a speed greater than 300 baud;
it is set to a \*Ldw2\*O if the port is a dialup at 300 baud or less:
.iS
tset -m 'dialup>300:adm3a' -m dialup:dw2 -m 'plugboard:?adm3a'
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
If the \*Vtype\*O finally determined by \*Ltset\*O begins with a
? (question mark), users are asked if they want that type.
A null response means to use that type; otherwise,
another type can be entered.  Thus, in the preceding
case, you are queried on a plugboard port
as to whether you are actually using an adm3a.
.PP
If no mapping applies and a final \*Vtype\*O argument not preceded by a
\*L-m\*O is given on the command line, then that type is used;
otherwise, the type passed to \*Lgetty\*O
is taken to be the terminal type.
This should always be the case for hardwired ports.
.PP
It is usually desirable to return the terminal type,
as finally determined by \*Ltset\*O,
and information about the terminal's capabilities to a shell's environment.
Returning the terminal type can be done using the \*L-\*O flag,
if you are using the Bourne shell, as follows:
.iS
export TERM; TERM= `tset - \*Voption \&.\&.\&.\*O`
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
or if you are using the C shell, as follows:
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.iS
set noglob; eval `tset -s \*Voption \&.\&.\&.\*O`
\*O\c
.iE
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.PP
It is also convenient to make an alias in your \*L.cshrc\*O file by
entering:
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" .iS
.\" alias tset 'eval `tset -s \e!*`'
.\" \*O\c
.\" .iE
.iS
alias ts 'set noglob; eval `tset -s \e!*`'
.iE
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.PP
The \*L-s\*O flag allows the \*Ltset\*O command
to be invoked at any time to set the terminal and environment.
A similar effect can be achieved using a shell function.
.PP
These commands cause \*Ltset\*O
to place the name of your terminal in the \*LTERM\*O environment variable.
.PP
Once the terminal type is known, \*Ltset\*O
engages in terminal driver mode setting.
This normally involves sending an initialization sequence to the
terminal, setting the single-character Erase and (optionally)
line Kill (full-line erase) characters,
and setting special character delays.
Tab and newline expansion are turned off during transmission of
the terminal initialization sequence.
.PP
If \*Ltset\*O is invoked as \*Lreset\*O,
it sets cooked and echo modes, turns off \*Lcbreak\*O and RAW modes,
turns on newline translation, and restores special characters
to a sensible state before any terminal-dependent processing is done.
Any special character that is found to be \*LNUL\*O
or \*L-1\*O is reset to its default value.  All flags to
\*Ltset\*O can be used with \*Lreset\*O.
.PP
The \*Lreset\*O command
is most useful after a program dies, leaving a terminal in a
state where characters are not echoed or
the terminal does not respond when you press \*L<Return>\*O, but the
prompt is displayed.  You might have to enter \*L<LF>reset<LF>\*O
to get \*Lreset\*O to work,
since carriage-return might not work in this state.
Often, none of this will echo.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Ltset\*O command was designed to use the \*Ltermcap\*O database.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Commenting out the following sentences per Grant Sullivan's response
.\" to QAR 6462.
.\" However, OSF/1 uses the \*Lterminfo\*O database for terminal
.\" descriptions.  There is no way to dynamically set up a
.\" terminal description in \*Lterminfo\*O.  \*Ltset\*O sets up a
.\" \*LTERMCAP\*O environment variable that OSF/1 commands do not use.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.PP
The following flags are accepted for compatibility with earlier versions
of \*Ltset\*O, but the use of these flags is discouraged:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-d \*Vtype\*O"
Equivalent to
\*L-m\*O \*Ldialup:\*Vtype\*O.
.LI "\*L-p \*Vtype\*O"
Equivalent to
\*L-m\*O \*Lplugboard:\*Vtype\*O.
.LI "\*L-a \*V:type\*O"
Equivalent to
\*L-m\*O \*Larpanet:\*Vtype\*O.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
These examples all assume the use of Bourne shell and the \*L-\*O flag.
If you use \*Lcsh\*O,
use one of the variations previously described.  Note that a typical use of
\*Ltset\*O in a \*L.profile\*O or \*L.login\*O file also uses the
\*L-e\*O and \*L-k\*O flags, and often uses the
\*L-n\*O or \*L-Q\*O flag as well.
These flags were not included here to keep the examples short.
.PP
Note that some of these take up more
than one line; however, you must enter
\*Ltset\*O commands entirely on one line.
.AL 3m
.LI
Assuming you are on a 2621, the following command
line is suitable for use in an interactive shell, but
not for a \*L\&.profile\*O file, unless you are always on a 2621:
.iS
export TERM; TERM=`tset - 2621`
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
You have an h19 at home that you dial up on, but your office terminal
is hardwired:
.iS
export TERM; TERM=`tset - -m dialup:h19"`
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
You have a switch that connects everything to everything, making
it nearly impossible to key on what port you are coming in on.
You use a VT100 terminal in your office that runs
at 9600 baud, and you dial up to switch
ports at 1200 baud from home on a 2621.
Sometimes you use someone else's terminal at work,
so you want it to ask you to make sure what terminal
type you have at high speeds, but at 1200 baud you are
always on a 2621.  Note the placement of the question mark, and the quotes
to protect the \*L<\*O (left angle bracket) and \*L?\*O
(question mark) characters from interpretation by the shell.
.iS
export TERM; TERM=`tset - -m 'switch>1200:?vt100' \e
	m- 'switch<=1200:2621'`
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
(Enter the command entirely on one line, not on two lines as shown above.)
.IP
All of the preceding entries fall back, if none of the conditions hold,
on the terminal type
specified by the value of the \*LTERM\*O variable when \*Ltset\*O is invoked.
.LI
The following entry is appropriate if
you always dial up at the same baud rate
on many different kinds of terminals.
Your most common terminal is an adm3a.
It always asks you what kind of terminal you are on,
defaulting to adm3a:
.iS
export TERM; TERM=`tset - ?adm3a`
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
If you want to
key entirely on the baud rate, the following entry can be used:
.iS
export TERM; TERM=`tset - -m 'switch>1200:?vt100' \e
	-m 'switch<=1200:2621'`
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
(Enter the command entirely on one line, not on two lines as shown above.)
.LI
You dial up at 1200 baud or less on a concept100,
sometimes over switch ports and sometimes over regular dialups.
You use various terminals at speeds higher than 1200 over switch ports,
most often the terminal in your office, which is a VT100.
However, sometimes you log in from the university you used to attend
over the ARPANET; in this case, you are on an ALTO emulating a dm2500.
You also often log in on various hardwired ports, such as the console.
You want your Erase character set to \*L<Ctrl-h>\*O and
your Kill character set to \*L<Ctrl-u>\*O, and you do not want \*Ltset\*O
to print the \*CErase set to Backspace, Kill set to Control U\*O message.
.iS
export TERM
TERM=`tset -e -k^U -Q - "-m 'switch<=1200:concept100' \e
	"-m 'switch:?vt100' -m dialup:concept100  \e
	"-m arpanet: dm2500"`
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
(Enter the command entirely on one line, not on three lines as shown above.)
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 14m
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/termcap\*O"
Terminal information database.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lcsh\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1), \*Lstty\*O(1), \*Ltty\*O(1).
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Commenting out the OSF FILES line and replacing it with a new one.
.\" Change made per Grant Sullivan's response to QAR 6462.
.\" Files: \*Lterminfo\*O(4).
Files: \*Ltermcap\*O(4)
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.EQ
delim off
.EN
