.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tty.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/29 21:04:48 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH tty 1
.SH NAME
\*Ltty\*O \- Returns pathname of terminal device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Ltty\*O
\*O[\*L-s\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Ltty\*O command writes the full pathname of your terminal device to
standard output.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "tty command"
.iX "returning" "terminal device pathname"
.iX "terminals" "device pathname" "returning"
.iX "pathnames" "terminal device" "returning"
.iX "device" "terminal pathname"
.iX "writing" "a terminal device pathname"
.PP
\*Ltty -s\*O evaluates as TRUE if standard output is a display and
FALSE if it is not.
.PP
\*L/dev/tty\*O is a special file always refers to your controlling terminal,
although it also may have another name like \*L/dev/console\*O or
\*L/dev/tty2\*O.  To avoid writing undesirable output to an output file -- for
example, to write a prompt in a shell script to the screen, while writing the
response to the prompt to an output file -- redirect standard output to
\*L/dev/tty\*O.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Suppresses reporting the pathname.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL 3m
.LI
To display full pathname of your terminal device, enter:
.iS
tty
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To test whether or not the standard input is a terminal device, create a shell
script containing the following:
.iS
if tty -s
then
	echo 'Output is a display'
else
	echo 'Output is not a display'
fi
\*O\c
.iE
.sp 0.4v
If the standard input is a terminal device, this displays the
\*COutput is a display\*O message.
If the standard input is not a terminal device, it displays the
\*COutput is not a display\*O message.
.LE
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*CStandard input is not a tty\*O"
Your standard input is not a display and you did not specify
the \*L-s\*O flag.
.LE
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
The exit value has the following possible meanings:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L0\*O"
Standard output is a display.
.LI "\*L1\*O"
Standard input is not a display.
.LI "\*L2\*O"
Invalid flags specified.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 7m
.LI "\*L/dev/tty\*O"
Pseudodevice representing the user's controlling terminal.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lstty\*O(1).
.PP
Files:  \*Ltty\*O(7).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
