.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: uac.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/12/23 23:24:35 $
.\"
.TH uac 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Luac\*O \- Unaligned Access Message Control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Luac\*O [\*Ls\*O] [\*Lp\*O] \*Vvalue\*O
.SH FLAGS
.PP
The following flags can be used with the \*Luac\*O command:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Ls\*O"
Sets or displays the current flag setting for the system.
.LI "\*Lp\*O"
Sets or displays the current flag setting for the parent process.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "uac command"
.iX "unaligned access message"
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.PP 
Most complete instruction set computers (CISC) will handle the access
of unaligned data but at a significantly reduced speed.  Most
reduced instruction set computers (RISC) make no attempt to handle
unaligned accesses and will instead generate an "Unaligned Access
Trap" and let the operating system handle the fault.
.PP
The default action for unaligned access traps for DEC OSF/1 is
for the operating system to fix the unaligned access and then
print a warning to the user that an unaligned access has occurred.
This provides an opportunity to correct the code so that
unaligned access is prevented.
.PP
These defaults are satisfactory for most users but some require
a different behavior and want to specify their own Unaligned Access
Control (hence called "UAC").
.\" End Digital-specific information
.PP
The \*Luac\*O
command controls the printing of "Fixed up unaligned data access for
pid nnn at pc 0xAddr" messages.  The command is used to set or
display the 
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
UAC_NOPRINT 
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
flag that controls printing the message for the
system or for the parent process of the user.  Generally, this process
is the shell.
.PP
If \*Vvalue\*O is specified, the flag is set; otherwise, the current
flag setting is displayed.  The \*Vvalue\*O can be either a zero (0),
which turns the flag 
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
on,
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
or a one (1), which turns the flag 
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
off.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
If both the system and the user flags are 
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
off
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
(set, 1) any
unaligned data access errors are reported to the user.
If either flag is 
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
on
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
(not set, 0), unaligned
data access errors are not reported.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
You must be superuser to set the system flag.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lgetsysinfo\*O(2), \*Lsetsysinfo\*O(2)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
