.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ul.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/14 13:43:47 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH ul 1
.SH NAME
\*Lul\*O \- Translates underlining for display on a terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lul\*O
\*O[\*L-i\*O]
\*O[\*L-t\*O
\*Vterminal\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O
\&...]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lul\*O command displays the named files (or standard input if
none are given) with underlining shown as it would be on the printed page.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-i\*O"
Causes the \*Lul\*O command
to indicate underlining by a separate line containing appropriate
\*L-\*O (dashes).  This is useful when you want to look at the
underlining in formatted text output on a cathode ray tube (CRT) terminal.
.LI "\*L-t\*O \*Vterminal\*O" 
Overrides the terminal kind specified in the environment.
The \*Lterminfo\*O database
is read to determine the appropriate sequences for underlining.
If the terminal is incapable of underlining but is capable of
a standout mode, then that mode is used instead.
If the terminal can overstrike, or handles underlining automatically,
\*Lul\*O acts like the \*Lcat\*O command, simply displaying data
to the screen.  If the terminal cannot underline, underlining is ignored.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "ul command"
.iX "translating" "underlining for terminal display"
.iX "displaying" "underlining on a terminal display"
.iX "terminals" "underlining"
.iX "underlining" "terminal display"
.PP 
The \*Lul\*O command translates underscores to the sequence
that indicates display underlining for the terminal in use, as specified
by the \*LTERM\*O environment variable.
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 14m
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/terminfo/?/*\*O"
Terminal information database.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lcol\*O(1), \*Lcolcrt\*O(1), \*Lman\*O(1), \*Lmore\*O(1).
.PP 
Files:  \*Lterminfo\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
