.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: uname.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/25 17:28:25 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH uname 1
.SH NAME
\*Luname\*O \- Displays information about the operating system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Luname\*O
\*O[\*L-amnrsv\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Luname\*O command displays the name of the operating system that
you are using, and provides other system information.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Displays all information specified with the
\*L-m\*O, \*L-n\*O, \*L-r\*O, \*L-s\*O,
and \*L-v\*O flags.
.LI "\*L-m\*O"
Displays the type of hardware running the system.
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Displays the name of the node (this may be a name that the system is
known by to a communications network).
.LI "\*L-r\*O"
Displays the release number of the operating system.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Displays the name of the implementation of the operating system. (This option is on by default.)
.LI "\*L-v\*O"
Displays the operating system version.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "uname command"
.iX "operating system" "displaying information about"
.iX "displaying" "operating system information"
.iX "versions" "operating system"
.iX "operating system" "version"
.iX "displaying" "system name"
.iX "systems" "name" "displaying"
.iX "node name" "displaying"
.iX "displaying" "node name"
.iX "displaying" "LAN network number"
.iX "LAN network number" "displaying"
.iX "displaying" "hardware information"
.iX "hardware information" "displaying"
.iX "displaying" "release number"
.iX "release number" "displaying"
.iX "operating system" "release number"
.PP
The \*Luname\*O command writes system information to standard output.
This is mainly useful to determine which system you are using.
The flags cause selected information returned by the \*Luname()\*O
call to be displayed.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To display the complete system name and version banner, enter:
.iS
uname -a
\*O\c
.iE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Functions:  \*Luname\*O(2).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
