.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: unget.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/15 18:59:28 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
.TH unget 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lunget\*O - Cancels a previous \*Lget\*O command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "unget command"
.iX "canceling" "get command"
.iX "get command"
.sS
\*Lunget\*O
\*O[\*L-n\*O] [\*L-s\*O]
\*O[\*L-r\*VSID\*O]
\*Vfile\*O
\&.\&.\&.
|
\*L-\*O
.sE
.PP
The \*Lunget\*O command allows you to restore a g-file created with
a \*Lget -e\*O before the new delta is created, and therefore
discard the changes (see the \*Lget\*O and \*Ldelta\*O commands).
.gL "delta"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
Each flag or group of flags applies independently to each named file.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-n\*O"
Prevents the automatic deletion of the file obtained by \*Lget\*O,the g-file.
This flag allows you to retain the edited version of the file
without making a delta.
.LI "\*L-r\*VSID\*O"
Specifies the new delta that would have been created by the next
use of the \*Ldelta\*O command.  You must use this flag if you have
two or more pending deltas to the file under the same login name.
You can look at the p-file to see if you have more than one delta
pending to a particular SID under the same login name.
The SID specification must unambiguously specify only
one SID to discard, or \*Lunget\*O displays an error message and stops running.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Suppresses displaying the deleted SID.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
If you specify a \*L-\*O (dash) in place of \*Vfile\*O,
standard input is read, and each line of standard input is interpreted
as the name of a Source Code Control System (SCCS) file.  An
End-of-File character terminates input.
.PP
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Changed BDEC/EDEC tags to comments.  No idea what the correction was.
The \*Vfile\*O name or names refer to the SCCS s-files, not the g-files.
If the s-files are not in the working directory, the names must include
the path to the SCCS directory.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
If you specify a directory in place of
\*Vfile\*O, \*Lunget\*O performs the requested actions on all
SCCS files (those files with the \*Ls\&.\*O prefix).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To discard the changes you have made to an SCCS file
after doing a \*Lget -e\*O, enter:
.iS
unget  s.prog.c
\*O\c
.iE
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Changed BDEC/EDEC tags to comments.  No idea what the correction was.
.PP
The previous example illustrates use of \*Lunget\*O for an s-file in
the working directory.  The following example illustrates use of the
command for an s-file in a different directory:
.iS
unget  /usr/projects/myproject/SCCS/s.prog.c
\*O\c
.iE
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.PP
The following environment variables affect the execution of \*Lunget\*O:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LLANG\*O"
Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are
unset or null. If \*LLANG\*O is unset or null, the corresponding value
from the implementation-specific default locale is used. If any of the
internationalization variables contains an invalid setting, the utility
behaves as if none of the variables had been defined.
.LI "\*LLC_ALL\*O"
If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other
internationalization variables.
.LI "\*LLC_TYPE\*O"
Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of
text data as characters (for example, single, as opposed to multi-byte,
characters in arguments and input files).
.LI "|*LLC_MESSAGES\*O"
Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and
contents of diagnostic messages written to standard error.
.LI "\*LNLSPATH\*O"
Determine the location of message cataloues for the processing of
\*LLC_MESSAGES\*O.
.LE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PP
The following exit values are returned.
.VL 3m
.LI "\*L0\*O"
Successful completion.
.LI "\*L>0\*O"
An error occurred.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Ladmin\*O(1), \*Lcdc\*O(1), \*Lcomb\*O(1), \*Ldelta\*O(1),
\*Lget\*O(1), \*Lprs\*O(1), \*Lrmdel\*O(1), \*Lsact\*O(1), \*Lsccsdiff\*O(1),
\*Lsccshelp\*O(1), \*Lval\*O(1), \*Lwhat\*O(1).
.PP
Files:  \*Lsccsfile\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
