.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: uniq.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/16 13:08:51 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH uniq 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Luniq\*O \- Removes or lists repeated lines in a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Luniq\*O [\*L\-cdu\*O] [\*L-f fields\*O] [\*L-s Chars\*O]
\*L-fields\*O] [\*L+Chars\*O] [\*Vinput-file\*O] [\*Voutput-file\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Luniq\*O command reads from standard input (default), or from the
specified \*Vinput_file\*O, compares adjacent lines, removes the
second and succeeding occurrences of a line, and writes to
standard output or to the specified file \*Voutput_file\*O.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Precedes each output line with a count of the number of times each
line appears in the file.
This flag supersedes \*L-d\*O and \*L-u\*O.
.LI "\*L-d\*O"
Displays repeated lines only.
.LI "\*L-f \*Vfields\*O"
Ignores the first \*Vfields\*O fields on each input line when doing
comparisons, where \*Vfields\*O is a positive decimal integer.  A
field is the maximal string matched by the basic regular expression:
.iS
[[:blank:]]*[^[:blank:]]*
\*O
.iE
If the \*Vfields\*O argument specifies more fields than appear on
an input line, a null string is used for comparisons.
.LI "\*L-s \*Vcharacters\*O"
Ignores the specified number of characters when doing comparisons.
The \*Vcharacters\*O argument is a positive decimal integer.
.IP
If specified with the \*L-f\*O flag, the first \*Vcharacters\*O
characters after the first \*Vfields\*O fields are ignored.  If the
\*Vcharacters\*O argument specifies more characters than remain on
an input line, \*Luniq\*O uses a null string for comparison.
.LI "\*L-u\*O"
Displays unique lines only.
.LI "\*L-\*Vnumber\*O"
.\" .zA "defect, 7028, R1.1.2, consistency"
Skips over the first \*Vnumber\*O fields.
.\" .zZ "defect, 7028, R1.1.2, consistency"
A field is a string of
nonspace, nontab characters separated by tabs or spaces, or both, from
adjacent data on the same line.  Equivalent to \*L-f \*Vfields\*O.
(Obsolescent)
.LI "\*L+\*Vnumber\*O"
.\" .zA "defect, 7028, R1.1.2, consistency"
Skips over the first \*Vnumber\*O characters.
.\" .zZ "defect, 7028, R1.1.2, consistency"
Fields specified by
\*Vnumber\*O are skipped before characters.  Equivalent to
\*L-s \*Vcharacters\*O.  (Obsolescent)
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "uniq command"
.iX "removing" "repeated lines in a file"
.iX "displaying" "repeated lines in a file"
.iX "repeated lines" "displaying"
.iX "files" "repeated lines"
The \*Vinput_file\*O and \*Voutput_file\*O arguments must be different files.
If the \*Linput_file\*O operand is not specified, or if it is \*L-\*O,
\*Luniq\*O uses standard input.
.PP
Repeated lines must be on consecutive lines to be found.  You
can arrange them with the \*Lsort\*O command before processing.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To delete repeated lines in the following file called \*Lfruit\*O
and save it to a file named \*Lnewfruit\*O, enter:
.iS
uniq fruit newfruit
.iE
.PP
The file \*Lfruit\*O contains the following lines:
.iS
apples
apples
bananas
cherries
cherries
peaches
pears
.iE
.PP
The file \*Lnewfruit\*O contains the following lines:
.\"Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\"Sorted example for QAR 06011
.iS
apples
bananas
cherries
peaches
pears
\*O\c
.iE
.\"End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lcomm\*O(1), \*Lsort\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
