.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.1
.TH units 1
.SH NAME
\*Lunits\*O \- Converts units from one measure to another
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lunits\*O
\*O[\*L\(hy\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "units command"
.iX "converting measures"
.PP
The \*Lunits\*O command converts quantities expressed in one
measurement to their equivalents in another.  The \*Lunits\*O command is an
interactive command.  It prompts you for the unit you want to
convert from and the unit you want to convert to.  The \*Lunits\*O command
does multiplicative scale changes only.  That is, \*Lunits\*O can convert
from one value to another only when the conversion is done with a
multiplication factor.  For example, \*Lunits\*O cannot convert between
degrees Fahrenheit and degrees Celsius because the value of 32
must be added or subtracted in the conversion.
.PP
You can specify a quantity as a multiplicative combination of units,
optionally preceded by a numeric multiplier.
.PP
Indicate powers by entering suffixed positive integers and indicate
division with a \*L/\*O (slash).
.PP
The \*Lunits\*O command recognizes \*Llb\*O as a unit of mass, but considers
\*Lpound\*O to be the British pound sterling.   Compound names
are run together (for example, \*Llightyear\*O).  Prefix British
units differing from their American counterparts with \*Lbr\*O
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Changed 'unittab' to 'units' per QAR 9751.
(for example, \*Lbrgallon\*O).  The \*L/usr/share/lib/units\*O
.\" End Digital-specific information
file contains a complete list of the units that the \*Lunits\*O command
uses.
.PP
Most familiar units, abbreviations, and metric prefixes are
recognized by the \*Lunits\*O command, together with the following:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lpi\*O"
Ratio of circumference to diameter.
.LI "\*Lc\*O"
Speed of light.
.LI "\*Le\*O"
Charge on an electron.
.LI "\*Lg\*O"
Acceleration of gravity.
.LI "\*Lforce\*O"
Same as \*Lg\*O.
.LI "\*Lmole\*O"
Avogadro's number.
.LI "\*Lwater\*O"
Pressure head per unit height of water.
.LI "\*Lau\*O"
Astronomical unit.
.LE
.PP
The \*L-\*O argument causes \*Lunits\*O to display a list of all
known units and their conversion values.  The \*Vfile\*O argument
specifies an alternative \*Lunits\*O file to be used instead of
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Changed 'unittab' to 'units' per QAR 9751.
the default file \*Lunits\*O.
.\" End Digital-specific information
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To start the \*Lunits\*O command, enter:
.iS
units
.iE
Now you can try the following examples.
.AL
.LI
To display conversion factors, enter:
.iS
\*Cyou have:\*O \*Lin\*O
\*Cyou want:\*O \*Lcm\*O
.iE
.oS
* 2.540000e+00
/ 3.937008e-01
.oE
.IP
The output from the \*Lunits\*O command tells you to multiply the
number of inches by 2.540000e+00 to get centimeters, and to multiply
the number of centimeters by 3.937008e-01 to get inches.
.IP
These numbers are in standard exponential notation, so
3.937008e-01 means 3.937008 x 10-1, which is
the same as 0.3937008.  The second number is always the reciprocal
of the first; for example, 2.54 equals 1/0.3937008.
.LI
To convert a measurement to different units, enter:
.iS
\*Cyou have:\*O \*L5 years\*O
\*Cyou want:\*O \*Lmicrosec\*O
.iE
.oS
* 1.577846e+14
/ 6.337753e-15
.oE
.IP
The output shows that 5 years equals 1.577846 x 1014 microseconds,
and that 1 microsecond equals 6.337753 x 10-15 years.
.LI
To give fractions in measurements, enter:
.iS
\*Cyou have:\*O \*L1|3 mi\*O
\*Cyou want:\*O \*Lkm\*O
.iE
.oS
* 5.364480e-01
/ 1.864114e+00
.oE
.IP
The \*L|\*O (vertical bar) indicates division, so 1|3 means one-third.
This shows that one-third mile is the same as 0.536448 kilometers.
.LI
To include exponents in measurements, enter:
.iS
\*Cyou have:\*O \*L1.2-5 gal\*O
\*Cyou want:\*O \*Lfloz\*O
.iE
.oS
* 1.536000e-03
/ 6.510417e+02
.oE
.IP
The expression 1.2-5 gal is the equivalent of 1.2 x 10-5.  Do not
type an e before the exponent.  This example shows that 1.2 x 10-5
(0.000012) gallons equal 1.536 x 10-3 (0.001536) fluid ounces.
.LI
To specify complex units, enter:
.iS
\*Cyou have:\*O \*Lgram centimeter/second2\*O
\*Cyou want:\*O \*Lkg-m/sec2\*O
.iE
.oS
* 1.000000e-05
/ 1.000000e+05
.oE
.IP
The units gram centimeter/second2 mean
"grams x centimeters/second2." Similarly, kg-m/sec2 means
"kilograms x meters/sec2," which is often read as "kilogram-meters per
seconds squared".
.LI
If the units you specify after you have
and you want are incompatible, enter:
.iS
\*Cyou have:\*O \*Lft\*O
\*Cyou want:\*O \*Llb\*O
.iE
.oS
conformability
3.048000e-01 m
4.535924e-01 kg
.oE
.IP
The message \*Cconformability\*O means the units you specified cannot
be converted.  Feet measure length, and pounds measure mass, so
converting from one to the other does not make sense.  Therefore,
the \*Lunits\*O command displays the equivalent of each value in
standard units.
.IP
In other words, this example shows that 1 foot equals 0.3048
meters and that 1 pound equals 0.4535924 kilograms. The \*Lunits\*O
command shows the equivalents in meters and kilograms because the
command considers these units to be standard measures of length
and mass.
.IP
Entering \*L<Ctrl-d>\*O causes you to exit from the \*Lunits\*O program.
.LE
.SH FILES
.VL 11m
.\" Begin Digital-specific information
.\" Changed 'unittab' to 'units' per QAR 9751.
.LI "\*L/usr/share/lib/units\*O"
.\" End Digital-specific information
Contains units and their conversion values.
.LE
.EQ
delim off
.EN
