.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: uptime.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/26 20:31:19 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH uptime 1
.SH NAME
\*Luptime\*O \- Shows how long a system has been running
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Luptime\*O
\*O[\*L-m\*O]
.sE
.PP 
The \*Luptime\*O command displays the current time, the amount of time
since the system was last started, the number of users logged into the system,
and the load averages.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-m\*O"
Prints the Mach factor instead of the load average.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "uptime command"
.iX "displaying" "system information"
.iX "systems" "up time"
.iX "systems" "displaying information about"
The display of the \*Luptime\*O command is identical to the heading of a
\*Lw\*O command display.
.PP 
The load average numbers give the number of jobs in the run queue
for the last 5 seconds, the last 30 seconds, and the last 60 seconds.
The Mach factor is a variant of the load average, given for the same
intervals; the closer its value to \*L0\*O, the higher the load.
.gL "load average"
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lw\*O(1), \*Lruptime\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
