.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: users.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/14 13:45:43 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" 
.\" @(#)users.1       6.2 (Berkeley) 1/28/87
.\" 
.TH users 1
.SH NAME
\*Lusers\*O, \*Lu\*O \- Displays a compact list of users who are on the system
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lusers\*O
.br
\*Lu\*O
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "users command"
.iX "displaying" "users"
.iX "users" "displaying"
.PP 
The \*Lusers\*O command lists the login names of the users currently on
the system in a compact, one-line format.  The usernames are in collated
order.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
To list the users currently logged in to your system, enter:
.PP
\*Csystem> \*O \*Susers\*O
.PP
The system responds as follows:
.PP
\*Cberg jackson diaz shahuri smith wong \*O
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP 
.\".VL 11m
.\".LI "\*L/var/adm/utmp\*O"
.\"Contains user information.
.\".LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands: \*Lfinger\*O(1), \*Llast\*O(8), \*Lw\*O(1), \*Lwho\*O(1).
.\".PP 
.\"Files: \*Lutmp\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
