.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: utob.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/12/10 10:06:04 $
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright (c) 1990, MIPS Computer Systems, Inc. |
.\" | All Rights Reserved.                            |
.\" ---------------------------------------------------
.\" $Header: /usr/doc/osf1doc/refpages/rcs/src/./BASE/DEC/man1/utob.1,v 3.2.2.4 1992/12/10 10:06:04 Nolan_Ring Exp $
.TH utob 1
.SH NAME
utob \- ASCII Ucode to Binary Ucode converter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "utob code converter"
.B utob
\*Vtext_file \*O
\*Vbinary_file \*O
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B utob,
the ASCII
\*Vucode\*O
to binary
\*Vucode\*O
converter, reads the ASCII ucode file and write it out in binary form
in the file specified in the command line.  It checks the version stamp
of the ucode file, and if it does not correspond to its own stamp,
a warning message will be printed.  By convention, ASCII ucode files have
the extension .U and binary ucode files have the extension .B, but
.B utob
does not force this convention on the user.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B utob
detects any syntax error or missing fields in the input ucode
instructions during input, and it will output error messages.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
.\" \*Lucode\*O(1),
\*Lbtou\*O(1),
.EQ
delim off
.EN
