.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: uucp.1,v $ $Revision: 3.3.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/03/15 20:09:48 $
.\" 
...\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" 
.TH uucp 1
.iX "uucp command"
.iX "copying" "files from one system to another"
.iX "files" "copying between systems"
.iX "remote" "file copy"
.SH NAME
.PP 
\*Luucp\*O - Copies files from one system to another (UNIX to UNIX system copy)
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*Luucp\*O
\*O[\*L-d\*O |
\*L-f\*O]
\*O[\*L-g\*Vgrade\*O]
\*O[\*L-cCjmr\*O]
\*O[\*L-n\*Vuser\*O]
\*O[\*L-s\*Vfile\*O]
\*O[\*L-x\*Vdebug_level\*O]
.nL
\*Vsource\*O
\&...
\*Vdestination\*O
.in -.5i
.sE
.PP
The \*Luucp\*O command copies one or more
source files from one system to one or more
destination files on another system.
.gL "UNIX-to-UNIX-Copy (UUCP)"
.gL "UUCP"
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Transfers the source files to the destination on the specified computer.
The source files are not copied into the
spool directory for transfer.  This saves the
system from copying possibly large files
to the spooling directory for transfer.
(See the discussion of the \*L-C\*O flag.)
.LI "\*L-C\*O" 
Copies local files to the spool directory for transfer.
Depending on the configuration of the \*LPoll\*O and
\*LSystems\*O files, and on how often the \*Luusched\*O
command is run, the files could be transferred immediately (on
demand polling), or in the future.  This flag is on by default.
.PP
Occasionally, there are problems
in transferring a source file; for example, the
remote computer might not be working, or the login attempt
might fail.  In such a case, the file
remains in the spool directory until it is either transferred
successfully or removed by the \*Luucleanup\*O command.
.LI "\*L-d\*O" 
Creates any intermediate directories needed to copy the source files to
the destination.
Instead of first creating a directory and then copying files to it,
the \*Luucp\*O command can be entered with the destination pathname,
and the required directory will be created.  This flag is on by default.
.LI "\*L-f\*O" 
Suppresses creation of intermediate directories during the file transfer.
.LI "\*L-g\*Vgrade\*O" 
Specifies when the files are to be transmitted during a particular
connection.  \*Vgrade\*O is a single number (0-9) or ASCII letter (A-Z, a-z);
lower ASCII-sequence characters cause the files to be transmitted earlier than
do higher sequence characters.  The number 0 is the highest (earliest)
grade; z is the lowest (latest) grade.  The default is N.
.LI "\*L-j\*O" 
Displays the job identification number of the transfer operation on standard
output.  This job ID can be used by the \*Luustat\*O command
to obtain the status of
information about the status of a particular job, or with \*Luustat
-k\*O to terminate the transfer before it is completed.
.LI "\*L-m\*O" 
Sends mail to the requester when the transfer to the remote system is
completed.  The message is sent
to the requester's mailbox, using the \*Lmailx\*O command.
No mail is sent for a local transfer.
.PP
The \*L-m\*O flag works only when sending files or receiving a single file.
It does not work when forwarding files.  Receiving multiple files
specified by the shell pattern-matching characters \*L?\*O, \*L*\*O, and
\*L[\&.\&.\&.]\*O does not activate the \*L-m\*O flag.
.LI "\*L-n\*Vuser\*O" 
Notifies the user specified by \*Vuser\*O on the designated system
that files were sent.  The mail system does not send a message for a
local transfer.  Usernames can contain only ASCII characters.
.LI "\*L-r\*O" 
Prevents the starting of
the file transfer program \*Luucico\*O, even if
the command was issued at a time when calls to the remote system are
permitted.  By default, a call to the remote system is attempted if the
command is issued during a time period specified in the \*LPoll\*O
and \*LSystems\*O files.
.LI "\*L-s\*Vfile\*O" 
Reports the status of the transfer to the specified file.  In this case, the
\*Vfile\*O designation must be a full pathname.
.LI "\*L-x\*Vdebug_level\*O" 
Displays debugging information on the screen of the user's terminal.  The
\*Vdebug_level\*O is a number between 0 and 9.  The higher
number gives a more detailed report.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP 
The \*Luucp\*O command can
copy files within a local system, between a local and a
remote system, and between two remote systems.
.PP 
The \*Luucp\*O command accomplishes the file transfer in two steps:  first,
by creating a command (\*LC.*\*O) file in the spooling directory on the
local computer, and then by sending the request to the specified
computer using the \*Luucico\*O command.
.PP 
Command files include information such as the full pathname of the source and
destination files, and the sender's login name.  The full pathname of a
command file is a form of the following:
.iS
/var/spool/uucp/\*Vsystem\*L/C.\*Vsystem\*LN\*Vnnnn\*O
.iE
.PP 
where \*LN\*O is the grade of the request and \*Vnnnn\*O is
the hexadecimal sequence number used.
.PP 
If the \*Luucp\*O command is used with the \*L-C\*O flag to copy
the files to the spool directory for transfer, \*Luucp\*O
creates not only a command file, but also a data (\*LD.*\*O) file that
contains the actual source file.  The full pathname of a data file is a form
of the following:
.iS
/var/spool/uucp/\*Vsystem\*L/D.\*Vsystem\*Vnnnn\*Vppp\*O
.iE
.PP 
where \*Vnnnn\*O is a hexadecimal sequence number and \*Vppp\*O is
a subjob ID.
.PP
Once the command files (and data files, if necessary) are created,
\*Luucp\*O calls the \*Luucico\*O daemon, which in
turn attempts to contact the remote computer to deliver the files.
.PP 
It is useful to issue the \*Luuname\*O command to determine the exact name
of the remote system before issuing \*Luucp\*O.  The \*Luulog\*O
command provides information about \*Luucp\*O activities on a system.
.SS Pathnames
.PP 
Pathnames for the \*Vsource\*O and \*Vdestination\*O of the
\*Luucp\*O transfer can contain only ASCII characters and
can be one of the following:
.ML  
.LI 
A full pathname.
.LI
A relative pathname.
.LI
A pathname preceded by \*L~\*Vuser\*O, where
\*Vuser\*O is a login name on the specified system.  The specified user's
login directory is then considered the destination of the transfer.
If the user specifies an invalid login name, the files are
transferred to the public directory \*L/var/spool/uucppublic\*O,
which is the default.
.LI
A pathname preceded by \*L~\*V/destination\*O, where
\*Vdestination\*O is appended to \*L/var/spool/uucppublic\*O.
.PP
This destination is treated as a filename unless more than one file is being
transferred by this request, or the destination is a directory.  To ensure that
it is a directory, follow the destination name with a
\*L/\*O (slash).  For
example, \*L~/amy/\*O as the destination creates the directory
\*L/var/spool/uucppublic/amy\*O, if it does not already exist, and puts
the requested files in that directory.
.LE
.SS Source and Destination Filenames
.PP 
A filename can be a pathname on the local system, or can have the
following form:
.iS
\*Vsystem\*L!\*Vpathname\*O
.iE
.PP
where \*Vsystem\*O is taken from a list of system names that
\*Luucp\*O knows about.
.PP 
The destination system name (\*Vdestination\*O) can also be
a list of names, such as the following:
.iS
\*Vsystem\*L!\*Vsystem\*L!\*O \&.\&.\&.\*L!\*Vsystem\*L!\*Vpathname\*O
.iE
.PP
In this case, an attempt is made
to send the file along the specified route to the
destination.  Make sure that intermediate nodes in this route are
willing to forward information and that they actually talk to the
next system.  
.\" (See the \*(Gc, or ask your system administrator.)
.PP 
The shell pattern-matching characters \*L?\*O, \*L*\*O, and
\*L[\&.\&.\&.]\*O can be used in the pathname of the source file;
the appropriate system expands them.  However, shell
pattern-matching characters cannot be used in
the pathname of the destination file.
.PP 
If the \*Vdestination\*O is a directory rather than a file,
\*Luucp\*O uses the last part of the \*Vsource\*O name.
.SS Permissions
.PP 
The system administrator should restrict the access to local files by users
on other systems.
.PP 
When transmitting files, \*Luucp\*O preserves execute permissions and
grants read and write permissions to the owner, the group, and all others.  (The
\*Luucp\*O command owns the file.)
.PP 
Sending files to arbitrary \*Vdestination\*O pathnames on other
systems, or getting files from arbitrary \*Vsource\*O pathnames on other
systems, often fails because of security restrictions.  The files specified in
the pathname must give read or write permission not only for the same group of
users, but also for any group.
.PP 
Protected files and files in protected directories owned by the
requestor can be sent by \*Luucp\*O.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
.AL 3m 
.LI
To copy file \*Lf1\*O from the local system to a remote system
named \*Lhera\*O, enter:
.iS
uucp /u/geo/f1 hera!/u/geo/f1
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To copy file \*Lf2\*O from the remote system \*Lhera\*O and place
it in the public directory, enter:
.iS
uucp hera!geo/f2 /var/spool/uucppublic/f2
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To place the \*Lf2\*O file in a directory other than the public
directory, enter:
.iS
uucp hera!geo/f2 /u/geo/f2
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
In this case, make sure that the \*Lgeo\*O login directory allows write
permission to both other users and other groups
(for example, with mode 777).
.LE 
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp\*O"
Contains the \*Luucico\*O daemon.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/uucp\*O" 
Spooling directory.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/uucppublic\*O" 
Public directory.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lct\*O(1), \*Lcu\*O(1),
\*Lmailx\*O(1)/\*LMail\*O(1), \*Lrmail\*O(1), \*Ltip\*O(1), \*Luucico\*O(8),
\*Luucleanup\*O(8), \*Luuencode\*O(1)/\*Luudecode\*O(1),
\*Luulog\*O(1), \*Luuname\*O(1), \*Luupick\*O(1), \*Luusched\*O(8),
\*Luusend\*O(1), \*Luustat\*O(1), \*Luuto\*O(1), \*Luux\*O(1), \*Luuxqt\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
