.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: uuencode.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/26 20:35:27 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH uuencode 1
.SH NAME
\*Luuencode\*O, \*Luudecode\*O \- Encodes or decodes a binary file
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Luuencode\*O
\*O[\*Vfile\*O]
\*Lremotefile\*O
.PP 
\*Luudecode\*O
\*O[\*Vfile\*O
\&...]
.sE 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
The \*Luuencode\*O and \*Luudecode\*O commands are used to send a binary
file via \*Luucp\*O (or other) mail.  This combination can be used
over indirect mail links even when \*Luusend\*O is not available.
.PP 
The \*Luuencode\*O command takes the named \*Vfile\*O
(default standard input)
and produces an encoded version on the standard output. The
encoding uses only printing ASCII characters, and includes the mode
of the file and the name for re-creation on the remote system, specified by
\*Vremotefile\*O.
.PP 
The \*Luudecode\*O command reads an encoded file, strips off any leading and
trailing lines added by mailers, and re-creates the original file with
the specified mode and name.  Filter the encode through
the \*Luudecode\*O program.  Filtering
the file causes the original file to be
automatically re-created. This is possible on the \*Luucp\*O network by either
using \*Lsendmail\*O or by making \*Lrmail\*O be a link to \*Lmailx\*O.
In each case, an alias must be created in a master file to get the automatic
invocation of \*Luudecode\*O.
.PP 
\*OIf neither of the preceding facilities are available on a user's system,
\*Luudecode\*O can be applied to the file manually by
editing the file with any text
editor, removing the trailing and leading lines, and changing either
the mode or remote system name. The encoded file is an ordinary text file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
To package up a source tree using \*Ltar\*O, compress it,
\*Luuencode\*O it, and mail it to a user on another system, enter:
.iS
tar cf - src_tree | compress | uuencode src_tree.tar.Z
	| mail sys1!sys2!user1
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
(Enter the command entirely on one line, not on two lines as shown above.)
.PP
When \*Luudecode\*O is run on the target system, the file
\*Lsrc_tree.tar.Z\*O is created; it may then be uncompressed and
de-archived with \*Ltar\*O.
.SH "RELATED INFORMATION"
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lct\*O(1), \*Lcu\*O(1),
\*Lmailx\*O(1), \*LMail\*O(1), \*Lrmail\*O(1), \*Lsendmail\*O(8),
\*Ltip\*O(1), \*Luucico\*O(8), \*Luucleanup\*O(8), \*Luucp\*O(1),
\*Luulog\*O(1), \*Luuname\*O(1), \*Luupick\*O(1), \*Luusched\*O(8),
\*Luusend\*O(1), \*Luustat\*O(1), \*Luuto\*O(1), \*Luux\*O(1).
.\", \*Luuxqt\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
