.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: uulog.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/11 14:03:18 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH uulog 1
.SH NAME
\*Luulog\*O \- Displays UUCP log files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\"Replaced with Digital syntax: Sterling T. Wolklin
.\" This section was changed for Silver. Tom Wolklin
.sS
\*Luulog\*O
\*L-f\*O
\*O\*Vsystem\*O
\*O[\*L-\*Vnumber\*O]
.PP
\*Luulog\*O
.PP
\*Luulog\*O
\*O\*Vsystems\*O
\*O[\*L-\*Vnumber\*O]
.PP
\*Luulog\*O
\*L-s\*O
\*O[\*Vsystems\*O]
\*O[\*L-\*Vnumber\*O]
.PP
\*Luulog\*O
\*L-x\*O
\*O[\*Vsystems\*O]
.sE
.\"Removed Digital specific reference and replaced
.\"regular syntax with Digital syntax.
.\".PP
.\" DEC specific info
.\"The following forms of syntax are Digital specific:
.\".sS
.\"\*Luulog\*O
.\".PP
.\"\*Luulog\*O
.\"\*O\*Vsystems\*O
.\"\*O[\*L-\*Vnumber\*O]
.\".PP
.\"\*Luulog\*O
.\"\*L-s\*O
.\"\*O[\*Vsystems\*O]
.\"\*O[\*L-\*Vnumber\*O]
.\".PP
.\"\*Luulog\*O
.\"\*L-x\*O
.\"\*O[\*Vsystems\*O]
.\"\*O[\*L-\*Vnumber\*O]
.\".sE
.\" End DEC specific info
.PP
The \*Luulog\*O command
displays the contents of a log file of
\*Luucico\*O or \*Luuxqt\*O activities.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-f\*O\*Vsystem\*O"
Performs a \*Ltail -f\*O on the file transfer log for the specified
\*Vsystem\*O, displaying the end of the log file.  Use
the Interrupt key sequence to leave the file and return to the prompt.
.\"If no system is specified, information is displayed for all systems.
.\"Replaced with Digital syntax: Sterling T. Wolklin
.\" The following text was modified for Silver. Tom Wolklin
.LI "\*L-s\*O[\*Vsystems\*O]"
Prints information about copy requests involving the specified
\*Vsystems\*O.  If no system is specified, information is displayed
for all systems.
.IP
Note: System names can contain only ASCII characters.
.\"Removed Digital specific reference.
.\" DEC specific info
.\".IP
.\"The following syntax for the \*L-s\*O flag is Digital specific:
.\".VL 4m
.\".LI "\*L-s\*O[\*Vsystems\*O]"
.\"Prints information about copy requests involving the specified
.\"\*Vsystems\*O.  If no system is specified, information is displayed
.\"for all systems.
.\".IP
.\"Note: System names can contain only ASCII characters.
.\" End DEC specific info
.\".LE
.\"Replaced with Digital syntax: Sterling T. Wolklin
.\" The following text was modified for Silver. Tom Wolklin
.LI "\*L-x\*O[\*Vsystems\*O]"
Displays the \*Luuxqt\*O log file for the specified
\*Vsystem\*O.  If no system is specified, information
is displayed for all systems.
.\" DEC specific info
.\".IP
.\"The following syntax for the \*L-x\*O flag is Digital specific:
.\".VL 4m
.\".LI "\*L-x\*O[\*Vsystems\*O]"
.\"Displays the \*Luuxqt\*O log file for the specified
.\"\*Vsystems\*O.
.\"If no system is specified, information is displayed for all systems.
.\".LE
.\" End DEC specific info
.LI "\*L-\*Vnumber\*O"
Displays the last lines of the log file.  The number of lines is
determined by the \*Vnumber\*O argument. (To display the lines, the
\*Luulog\*O command issues
a \*Ltail\*O
.\"with the \*L-f\*O flag 
for the specified \*Vnumber\*O of lines.)
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "uulog command"
.iX "displaying" "information about uucp, uuto, and uux"
.iX "displaying" "information about file transfer activity"
.iX "file transfer" "displaying information about"
.iX "uucp" "displaying information about"
.iX "uuto" "displaying information about"
.iX "uux" "displaying information about"
.iX "file transfer" "log files"
.iX "uux" "log files"
.iX "uuto" "log files"
.iX "uucp" "log files"
.iX "log files" "uucp and uux"
.iX "files" "log"
.PP
.\"Begin Digital correction.
Individual log files are
created for each remote system with which the local system communicates
using the \*Luucp\*O, \*Luusend\*O, \*Luuto\*O, or \*Luux\*O commands.
.PP
Use the \*Luulog\*O command to display a summary of \*Luucp\*O,
\*Luusend\*O, \*Luuto\*O, and \*Luux\*O command requests by user or by system.
All of these transactions are logged in files under the
\*L/usr/spool/uucp/\&.Log/\*O directory.  The files are named
\*Vdaemon_name\*O/\*Vsystem\*O, where the
\*Vdaemon_name\*O directory is named for the daemon involved and
the \*Vsystem\*O file is named for the remote system the daemon is
contacting.
.PP
The \*Luucp\*O and \*Luuto\*O commands call the \*Luucico\*O
daemon.  The \*Luucico\*O activities are logged in the \*Vsystem\*O
file in the \*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Log/uucico\*O directory.
.PP
The \*Luux\*O and \*Luusend\*O commands call the \*Luuxqt\*O daemon.  The
\*Luuxqt\*O activities are logged in the \*Vsystem\*O
file of the \*L/usr/spool/uucp/\&.Log/uuxqt/\*Vsystem\*O
directory.
.\"End Digital correction.
.PP
You can examine these individual log files by issuing the
\*Luulog\*O command directly.  However, you can also have
these temporary log files appended to a primary log
file that you can then examine.  This is called compacting the log
files and is handled by \*Luudemon.cleanu\*O, a shell script
in \*L/usr/lib/uucp\*O.
.\".PP
.\"You must be root to use this command.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To display the \*Luucico\*O log file for system \*Lhera\*O, enter:
.iS
uulog -shera
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To display the \*Luuxqt\*O log file, enter:
.iS
uulog -x
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To display the last forty lines of the file transfer log for system
\*Lzeus\*O, enter:
.iS
uulog -fzeus -40
\*O\c
.iE
.\" The following 3 examples were added for Silver. Tom Wolklin
.LI
To display the \*Luucico\*O log file for systems \*Lpluto\*O and
\*Lvenus\*O, enter:
.iS
uulog -s pluto venus
.iE
.\"Remove Digital specific reference: Sterling T. Wolklin
.\" DEC specific info
.\".IP
.\"This syntax is Digital specific.
.\" End DEC specific info
.LI
You can achieve the same results as example 4 by entering the following
command:
.iS
uulog pluto venus
.iE
.LI
To display the \*Luuxqt\*O log file for systems \*Lpluto\*O and
\*Lvenus\*O, enter:
.iS
uulog -x pluto venus
.iE
.\"Remove Digital specific reference: Sterling T. Wolklin
.\" DEC specific info
.\".IP
.\"This syntax is Digital specific.
.\" End DEC specific info
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/.Log\*O"
Contains log files.
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucppublic\*O"
Public directory.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lct\*O(1), \*Lcu\*O(1),
\*Ltail\*O(1), \*Ltip\*O(1), \*Luucico\*O(8), \*Luucleanup\*O(8),
\*Luucp\*O(1), \*Luuencode\*O(1), \*Luudecode\*O(1),
\*Luuname\*O(1), \*Luupick\*O(1), \*Luusched\*O(8),
\*Luusend\*O(1), \*Luustat\*O(1),
\*Luuto\*O(1), \*Luux\*O(1)
.\" , \*Luuxqt\*O(8).
.\".PP 
.\" "Using Internationalization Features" in the 
.EQ
delim off
.EN
