.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: uuname.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/14 13:47:00 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH uuname 1
.SH NAME
\*Luuname\*O \- Displays names of accessible systems
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Luuname\*O
\*O[\*L-l\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Luuname\*O command displays a list
of all the computers accessible to the local system; the list of
systems is displayed on standard output.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-l\*O"
Displays the name of the local system.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "uuname command"
.iX "displaying" "names of accessible systems"
.iX "systems" "accessible"
.PP 
In order for a local system to communicate with a remote system, the
remote system must support the UUCP protocol.
.PP 
The accessible remote systems are
listed in the \*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O file.
.PP 
Before copying a file to another system with the \*Luuto\*O command
or with the \*Luucp\*O command, issue
\*Luuname\*O to determine the exact name of the remote system.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
.AL 3m 
.LI
To identify the remote systems connected to the local system, enter:
.iS
uuname
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The system responds with a list like the following:
.oS
hera
zeus
merlin
arthur
\*O\c
.oE
.LI
To identify the name of the local system, enter:
.iS
uuname -l
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The system responds with the name of the local system:
.oS
venus
\*O\c
.oE
.LE 
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp\*O"
Spooling directory.
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucppublic\*O" 
Public directory.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O" 
Lists accessible remote systems.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lct\*O(1), \*Lcu\*O(1),
\*Lrmail\*O(1), \*Ltip\*O(1), \*Luucico\*O(8),
\*Luucleanup\*O(8), \*Luucp\*O(1),
\*Luuencode\*O(1)/\*Luudecode\*O(1), \*Luulog\*O(1), \*Luupick\*O(1),
\*Luusched\*O(8), \*Luusend\*O(1), \*Luustat\*O(1), \*Luuto\*O(1),
\*Luux\*O(1).
.\", \*Luuxqt\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
