.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: uupick.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/14 13:47:19 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH uupick 1
.SH NAME
\*Luupick\*O \- Accepts or rejects files transmitted to a user by \*Luuto\*O
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP
.sS
\*Luupick\*O
\*O[\*L-s\*Vsystem\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Luupick\*O command accepts
or rejects files that the \*Luuto\*O command has transmitted to
a designated user ID.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-s\*Vsystem\*O"
Searches \*L/usr/spool/uucppublic/receive\*O/\*Vuser\*O/\*Vsystem\*O
only for files sent from the specified system.
System names must contain only ASCII characters.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "uupick command"
.iX "uuto command"
.iX "files" "transmitted by uuto"
.PP 
When the files have arrived, the \*Lrmail\*O
command notifies the recipient, who then issues the
\*Luupick\*O command to receive and handle the files.
.PP 
Specifically, \*Luupick\*O searches the public
directory on the local system for files with some form of the
following name:
.iS
\*L/usr/spool/uucppublic/receive/\*Vuser\*L/\*Vsystem\*L/\*Vfile\*O
.iE
.PP
where \*Vuser\*O is the user ID of the user issuing the command.
.PP
For each entry (file or directory) found, \*Luupick\*O displays the following
message:
.oS
from \*Vsystem\*C: [file \*Vfile\*C] [dir \*Vdirectory\*C]
?
\*O\c
.oE
.PP
The \*Luupick\*O command then waits for a response from standard input to
determine the disposition of
the file or directory.  Issuing the \*Luupick\*O command with the appropriate
file-handling option completes the transfer.
.SS File-Handling Options
.PP 
After notifying the user that a file was sent from
\*Vsystem\*O, \*Luupick\*O displays a \*L?\*O (question mark),
prompting for one of the following file-handling options:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L*\*O"
Displays all file-handling options.
.LI "\*L<Return>\*O" 
Moves on to the next entry in the \*Lreceive\*O directory.
.LI "\*La\*O [\*Vdirectory\*O]" 
Moves all \*Luuto\*O files currently in the \*Lreceive\*O
directory into a specified directory on the local system.  The
default is the current working directory.  Use a full or relative
pathname to specify a different directory.
.LI "\*Ld\*O" 
Deletes the specified file.
.LI "\*Lm\*O [\*Vdirectory\*O]" 
Moves the specified file to a specified directory.  If \*Vdirectory\*O
is not specified as a complete pathname, a destination relative to the current
directory is assumed.  If \*Vdirectory\*O is not specified at all, the default
is the current working directory on the local system.
.LI "\*Lp\*O" 
Displays the contents of the file on the terminal screen.
.LI "\*Lq\*O" 
Stops processing and exits from \*Luupick\*O.
.LI "\*LEnd-of-File\*O" 
Same as \*Lq\*O.
.LI "\*L!\*Vcommand\*O" 
Escapes to a shell to run the specified command.  After the command
executes, it returns automatically to \*Luupick\*O so you can continue to
handle the \*Luuto\*O files in the \*Lreceive\*O directory.
.LE 
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
To receive \*Lfile1\*O sent with the \*Luuto\*O command from user
\*Lmsg\*O on system \*Lzagreb\*O, enter:
.iS
uupick
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The system responds:
.oS
from system zagreb: file file1
?
\*O\c
.oE
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucppublic\*O"
Public directory.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lct\*O(1), \*Lcu\*O(1), \*Lrmail\*O(1), \*Ltip\*O(1),
\*Luucico\*O(8), \*Luucleanup\*O(8),
\*Luucp\*O(1), \*Luuencode\*O(1)/\*Luudecode\*O(1),
\*Luulog\*O(1), \*Luuname\*O(1), \*Luusched\*O(8), \*Luusend\*O(1),
\*Luustat\*O(1), \*Luuto\*O(1), \*Luux\*O(1).
.\", \*Luuxqt\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
