.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: uustat.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.7 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/01/26 16:13:37 $
.\" 
...\"
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\"
.TH uustat 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Luustat\*O - Reports status of and provides job control for remote file transfer requests and other operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Luustat\*O
\*O[\*L-a\*O | \*L-k\*Vjob_number\*O |
\*L-m\*O | \*L-p\*O | \*L-q\*O |
\*L-r\*Vjob_number]
\*O[\*L-s\*Vsystem\*O]
\*O[\*L-u\*Vuser\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Luustat\*O command displays
status information about several types of file transfer operations.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
The following flags are
mutually exclusive; you can use only one at a time with
the \*Luustat\*O command:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-a\*O"
Displays information about all the jobs in the holding queue,
regardless of the user who issued the original command.
.IP
There are two types of queues:
.ML
.LI
The current queue lists the jobs either queued to run
on, or currently running on, one or more specified computers.  Use the
\*Luustat -q\*O command to examine this queue.
.LI
The holding queue, displayed with \*Luustat -a\*O,
lists all jobs that have not executed during a set period of time.
.IP
After the set time period has elapsed, the entries in the holding queue
are deleted either manually with the \*Luucleanup\*O command,
or automatically with the file \*L/var/spool/cron/crontabs/uucp\*O
(includes \*Luudemon.cleanu\*O), which is started by \*Lcron\*O.
When sending files to a system that was not contacted recently,
it is a good idea to use the \*Luustat\*O command to see when the last
access occurred, as the remote system might be out of service.
.LE
.LI "\*L-k \*Vjob_number\*O"
Cancels (kills) the process specified by \*Vjob_number\*O.
The person using this flag must be either the one who made the \*Luucp\*O
request now being canceled, or must be operating with superuser authority.
.IP
This flag cancels a process only when that job is still on the local
computer.  Once the job has been moved to a remote system for execution,
\*L-k\*Vjob_number\*O cannot be used to cancel the remote job.
.LI "\*L-m\*O"
Reports the status of the most recent attempt to contact the
specified system.  If the request was completed,
the status report is \*CSUCCESSFUL\*O.  If the job was not completed,
the status report is an error message, such as \*CLOGIN FAILED\*O.
.LI "\*L-p\*O"
Runs a \*Lps -flp\*O (process status: a full, long list of specified
process IDs) for all PID numbers in the lock files.
.LI "\*L-q\*O"
Lists the jobs currently queued to run on each system; these jobs are
either waiting to execute or are
in the process of executing.  If a status file
exists for the system, its date, time, and status information are
reported.  Once the job is finished, that job listing is removed from
the current queue.
.IP
In a status report, a number in parentheses next to the number of a
\*LC.*\*O (command) file or an \*LX.*\*O (execute) file represents the
age in days of the oldest \*LC.*/X.*\*O file for that system.  The
retry field represents the number of times
the command could not be executed because of such factors
as a failed login, locked files, an unavailable device, and so on.
.LI "\*L-r \*Vjob_number\*O"
Marks the files in the holding queue specified by \*Vjob_number\*O
with the current date and time.  Use this flag to ensure that a
cleanup operation does not delete
files until the job's modification time reaches
the end of the specified period.
.LE
.PP
You can use either one or both of the following flags with
\*Luustat\*O:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-s\*Vsystem\*O"
Reports the status of requests for the
system specified by \*Vsystem\*O.
The system name must contain only ASCII characters.
.LI "\*L-u\*Vuser\*O"
Reports the status of requests
by the specified user for any system.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "uustat command"
.iX "reporting" "remote file transfer request status"
.iX "job" "remote file transfer" "controlling"
.iX "uuto command"
.iX "uucp command"
.iX "uux command"
.iX "remote" "file transfer"
.iX "requests" "remote file transfer"
.iX "transfer request" "remote file"
.iX "files" "remote transfer requests"
The \*Luustat\*O command is particularly
useful in monitoring transfer (copy) requests issued with the \*Luucp\*O
and \*Luuto\*O commands, and requests made with the \*Luux\*O command
to run commands on a remote system.
.PP
In addition, \*Luustat\*O also gives a user limited control over jobs
queued to run on remote systems.  By issuing the command with the appropriate
flag, a user can check the general status of connections to other systems,
and cancel copy requests made with \*Luucp\*O and \*Luuto\*O.
.PP
If \*Luustat\*O is issued without any flags, the command reports the status
of all requests issued by the current user since the last time the holding
queue was cleaned up.  Such status reports are displayed
in the following format:
.iS
\*Vjob_number  date/time  status  system  user  size  file\*O
.iE
.PP
See \*LEXAMPLES\*O for an explanation of this format.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"Begin Digital specific change.
.\"The examples in this section has been changed because
.\"they where to wide for our format.
.AL 3m
.LI
To display the status of all jobs in the holding queue, enter:
.iS
uustat -a
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The system responds with a message similar to the following:
.iS
.ps -2
heraC3113 Wed Nov 06 17:47:25 1991 S hera  amy 289  D.venus471afd8
zeusN3130 Wed Nov 06 09:14:30 1991 R zeus  geo 338  D.venus471bc0a
merlinC3120 Tue Nov 05 16:02:33 1991 S merlin amy 828  /u/amy/tt
merlinC3119 Tue Nov 05 12:32:01 1991 S merlin msg rmail amy
.ps +2
.iE
.IP
The first field is the job ID of the operation, which is followed by
the date and time the command was issued.  The third field is either an
\*LS\*O or an \*LR\*O, depending
on whether the job is to send or request a file.  The
fourth field is the name of the system on which the command was entered,
followed by the user ID of the person who issued the command.
The sixth field is the size of the file, or, in the case of a remote execution
like the last entry in the example, the name of the remote command.  When the
size of the file is given, the filename
is also displayed.  The filename can be either the name given by the
user, as in the \*L/u/amy/tt\*O entry, or
a name that is assigned internally to data
files associated with remote executions, such as \*LD.venus471afd8\*O.
.LI
To display the status of all jobs in the current queue, enter:
.iS
uustat -q
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The system responds with a message similar to the following:
.iS
.ps -2
merlin 3C Mon Jul 15 11:02:35 1991  NO DEVICES AVAILABLE
hera   2C Mon Jul 15 10:55:22 1991  SUCCESSFUL
zeus   1C (2) Mon Jul 15 10:59:48 1991  CAN'T ACCESS DEVICE
.ps +2
.iE
.IP
The output tells how many \*LC.*\*O (command) files are waiting for each
system.  The
date and time refer to the current interaction with the system,
followed by a report of the status of the interaction.  The \*L(2)\*O
in the third line of the example indicates that the
\*LC.*\*O file has been in the queue for 2 days.
.LI
To display all process IDs in the lock file, enter:
.iS
uustat -p
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To cancel a job in the current queue, first determine the job ID and
then issue the command (\*Luustat -k\*O) to cancel the job.
To determine the job ID, enter:
.iS
uustat -a
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The system responds with a message similar to the following:
.iS
.ps -2
heraC3113 Wed Nov 06 17:47:14 1991 S hera amy 289 D.venus471afd8
merlinC3119 Wed Nov 06 17:49:37 1991 S merlin geo 338 D.venus471bc0a
.ps +2
.iE
.IP
To cancel the job with the ID of heraC3113:
.iS
uustat -k heraC3113
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To report the status of jobs requested by system \*Lhera\*O, enter:
.iS
uustat -s hera
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
The system responds with a message similar to the following:
.iS
.ps -2
heraNlbd7 Mon Jul 15 12:09:44 1991 S hera amy 522 /user/amy/A
heraClbd8 Mon Jul 15 12:10:30 1991 S hera amy 59 D.3b2a12ce4924
heraC3119 Mon Jul 15 12:11:11 1991 S hera amy rmail msg
.ps +2
.iE
.LI
To report the status of jobs requested by user \*Lamy\*O, enter:
.iS
uustat -u amy
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This flag displays output similar to that produced by the \*L-s\*O flag.
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/locks/LCK*\*O"
Prevents multiple use of device.
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp\*O"
Spooling directory.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lcron\*O(8), \*Lct\*O(1), \*Lcu\*O(1), \*Lecho\*O(1), \*Lps\*O(1),
\*Lrmail\*O(1), \*Lstty\*O(1), \*Ltip\*O(1), \*Luucico\*O(8),
\*Luucleanup\*O(8), \*Luucp\*O(1), \*Luulog\*O(1), \*Luuname\*O(1),
\*Luupick\*O(1), \*Luusched\*O(8),
\*Luusend\*O(1), \*Luuto\*O(1), \*Luux\*O(1).
.\", \*Luuxqt\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
