.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: uuto.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/08/31 15:13:43 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH uuto 1
.SH NAME
\*Luuto\*O \- Copies public files between systems using local file access control
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Luuto\*O
\*O[\*L-mp\*O]
\*Vsource\*O
\&...
\*Vuser\*O
.sE
.PP
The \*Luuto\*O command copies one or
more source files from one system to a specified
user on another system.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-m\*O"
Notifies the sender by \*Lmail\*O when the copy is complete.
.LI "\*L-p\*O" 
Copies the source file to the spool directory on the local system.  The
source file resides in the spooling directory for a set period of time
(defined in the \*Luusched\*O program)
before the \*Luucp\*O command calls the \*Luucico\*O daemon, which
actually transfers the copy to the public directory on the specified
remote system.  The default is to transfer a source file directly to
the specified user.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "uuto command"
.iX "copying" "files between systems"
.iX "copying" "public files"
.iX "files" "public" "copying"
.iX "public file" "copying"
.iX "local" "file access control"
.iX "access control" "local file"
.iX "files" "copying between systems"
.iX "remote" "public file copy"
.iX "remote" "file copy"
.iX "remote" "system" "copying to"
.iX "systems" "copying files between"
.PP 
The \*Luuto\*O command
calls the \*Luucp\*O command for the actual file transfer, but
\*Luuto\*O enables the recipient to use the \*Luupick\*O command
to handle the transferred files on the local system.
.PP 
The \*Vsource\*O argument is the name of the files on the local system,
or a pathname to the files on the system that runs the command.  The
\*Vuser\*O is a specific user ID.  This entry has the following format:
.iS
\*Vsystem\*L!\*Vuser\*O
.iE
.PP
where \*Vsystem\*O is the name of a remote system connected to the local
system, and \*Vuser\*O is the login name of the recipient of the transferred
files on the specified system.
.PP 
When copying a file from one user to another user on the local system,
omit the \*Vsystem\*O entry; the destination is simply the login name of
the user to whom the file is being sent.
.PP 
The \*Luuto\*O command sends files to \*L/usr/spool/uucppublic\*O on
the designated \*Vsystem\*O; this is a public directory.  The command
also creates an additional directory
called \*Lreceive\*O (if it does not already exist), plus the directory
\*L/\*Vuser\*L/\*Vsystem\*O under \*Lreceive\*O.  The full
pathnames to the copied files are of the following form,
.iS
/usr/spool/uucppublic/receive/\*Vuser\*L/\*Vsystem\*L/\*Vfile\*O
.iE
.PP
where \*Vuser\*O is the login name of the recipient and \*Vsystem\*O
is the name of the system from which \*Vfile\*O was copied.
.PP
Once the copied file is in the \*Lreceive\*O directory, \*Luuto\*O
notifies the recipient by \*Lrmail\*O that the file has arrived.  The
recipient then issues the \*Luupick\*O command, which searches the public
directory for files sent to the specified user ID, displaying the message that
file \*Vfile\*O has arrived from system \*Vsystem\*O for each file it
locates.  The user then enters one of the \*Luupick\*O file-handling
options to delete the file, move it to another directory, and so on.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
.AL 3m 
.LI
To copy the file \*L/usr/bin/file1\*O on local system \*Lhera\*O to
user \*Lkaren\*O on remote system \*Lzeus\*O, enter the following:
.iS
uuto /usr/bin/file1 zeus!karen
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The file \*L/usr/bin/file1\*O is sent to remote system \*Lzeus\*O, and
is stored there
at \*L/usr/spool/uucppublic/receive/karen/hera/file1\*O. 
.LI
To copy a file to a user on a remote system and receive a message back
telling you if the source file was successfully copied, enter:
.iS
uuto -m /usr/bin/file2 zeus!karen
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The file \*L/usr/bin/file2\*O is sent to the user \*Lkaren\*O on the remote
system \*Lzeus\*O at the same location as in Example 1, and a message 
confirming that the copy was successful
is returned to the sender.
.LI
To copy a file to another user on local system \*Lhera\*O, enter:
.iS
uuto /usr/bin/file3 ron
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The file \*L/usr/bin/file3\*O is sent to the user \*Lron\*O on 
the local system, and is stored
in \*L/usr/spool/uucppublic/receive/ron/hera/file3\*O. 
No mail message is sent to the recipient in a local transfer.
.LE 
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucppublic\*O"
Public directory.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lmail\*O(1)/\*Lbinmail\*O(1), \*Lct\*O(1), \*Lcu\*O(1),
\*Lrmail\*O(1), \*Ltip\*O(1), \*Luucico\*O(8), \*Luucleanup\*O(8),
\*Luucp\*O(1), \*Luuencode\*O(1)/\*Luudecode\*O(1),
\*Luulog\*O(1), \*Luuname\*O(1), \*Luupick\*O(1), \*Luusched\*O(8),
\*Luusend\*O(1), \*Luustat\*O(1), \*Luux\*O(1).
.\", \*Luuxqt\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
