.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\"           Reference Page RSML Coding Template 
.\" 
.\"  This template is intended as a coding aid for writers producing
.\"  reference pages with RSML macros.  
.\"
.\"  To format reference pages, 
.\"  you can use the following command on ravine (only):
.\"  
.\"    bman -b|-o  -n|-p  filename
.\"    
.\"  where:
.\"         -b or -o 
.\"         Indicates the SCCS directory ("bsd" or "osf")
.\"         from which the reference page was checked out for edit.
.\"
.\"         -n or -p
.\"         Indicates the format ("nroff" or "PostScript") in
.\"         which you want an output file.
.\"
.\"  For example, the following command produces the file find.1.nr
.\"  in your default directory:
.\"
.\"         % bman -o -n find.1
.\"
.\" *** MIPS Information ***
.\"
.\" If there is MIPS-specific information included on a manpage,
.\" set it off with conditional coding:
.\"
.\" #ifdef MIPS
.\"
.\" End the MIPS-specific information with this line:
.\"
.\" #endif
.\" 
.\" Be sure the "#ifdef MIPS" and "#endif" are flush with the
.\" left margin, and that each is on a line by itself.
.\" 
.\" **********************
.\"
.\" NOTE:  Do NOT include any copyright notice in your manpage unless
.\"        you have taken the information from another source, such
.\"        as the OSF.  
.\"
.\"        Do NOT include .so lines for the RSML and SML macro packages.
.\"
.\" **********************
.\"         
.\"  The path to this template is:
.\"
.\"	ravine:/usr/public/RefPage_Template_RSML
.\"   
.\" - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
.\" created per 6-16-92 request D. Parker
.\"	
.\"
.TH uutry 1
.iX "uutry command"
.iX "contacting a remote system"
.iX "remote" "system" "contacting"
.iX "systems" "remote" "contacting"
.iX "systems" "contacting a remote"
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Luutry\*O - Trys to contact remote system with debugging on
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Luutry\*O
\*Vsystem\*O
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \*Luutry\*O command is a shell that invokes \*Luucico\*O to 
call a remote site, \*Vsystem\*O.
Debugging is turned on (level 9).  The debugging output is put into the
file \*L/tmp/\*Vsystem\*O.  A \*Ltail -f\*O on this file is executed so that the
debugging output is printed on the terminal during execution.  Typing
the \*LInterrupt\*O key sequence gives control back to the terminal
while \*Luucico\*O continues to run, putting its output 
in \*L/tmp/\*Vsystem\*O.
.PP
The \*Luutry\*O command overrides any retry period for a remote 
system and will attempt to establish a connection immediately.
.PP
The output file, \*L/tmp/\*Vsystem\*O is 
overwritten each time \*Luutry\*O is executed to \*Vsystem\*O.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 6m
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Systems\*O"
On a given system, this file contains a list of remote sites 
accessible through the UUCP protocol.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Permissions\*O"
The primary security file for \*Luucp\*O which specifies
access permissions for remote systems.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Devices\*O"
Contains information about devices on the local
system that can establish a connection to a remote computer using
the \*Luucp\*O program.
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp/*\*O"
The spool directory where \*Luucp\*O maintains its temporary
work files.
.LI "\*L/var/spool/locks/LCK*\*O"
Contains lock files that prevent multiple uses of devices and
multiple calls to systems.
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucppublic/*\*O"
Called the public directory on a given system, UUCP uses it
for sending and receiving information; \*L~uucp\*O is a brief 
way of specifying it.
.LI "\*L/tmp/\*Vsystem\*O
A file created by \*Luutry\*O to
contain traces generated by \*Luucico\*O while connecting 
to system, \*Vsystem\*O.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Luucico\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
