.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: uux.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/08/26 08:43:55 $
.\" 
...\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" 
.TH uux 1
.iX "uux command"
.iX "executing commands remotely"
.iX "commands" "executing remotely"
.iX "remote" "command execution"
.iX "execution" "remote"
.SH NAME
.PP 
\*Luux\*O - Runs a command on another system
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*Luux\*O
\*O[\*L-c\*O | \*L-C\*O]
\*O[\*L-n\*O | \*L-z\*O]
\*O[\*L-\*O | \*L-p\*O]
\*O[\*L-a\*Vuser\*O]
\*O[\*L-bjr\*O]
\*O[\*L-g\*Vgrade\*O]
\*O[\*L-s\*Vfile\*O]
.nL
\*O[\*L-x\*Vdebug_level\*O]
\*Vcommand_string\*O
.in -.5i
.sE
.PP
The \*Luux\*O command runs a specified
command \*Vcommand_string\*O on a specified system while
enabling you to continue working on the local system.
This command runs on systems that support the UUCP protocol.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-\*O"
Makes the standard input to \*Luux\*O the standard input to the
\*Vcommand_string\*O.  Same as \*L-p\*O.
.LI "\*L-a\*Vuser\*O" 
Replaces the user ID of the person issuing the command with
user ID \*Vuser\*O.
.LI "\*L-b\*O" 
Returns standard input to the command if the exit status is not zero.
.LI "\*L-c\*O" 
Transfers the source files to
the destination on the specified system.  The source files are not
copied into the
spool directory for transfer.  (See the description of the \*L-C\*O
flag.)
.LI "\*L-C\*O" 
Transfers the source files to the spool directory.  After a set period
of time, (specified in the \*Luusched\*O program)
the \*Luucico\*O daemon attempts to transfer the files to the destination
on the specified computer. This flag is on by default.
.PP
Occasionally, there are
problems in transferring a source file; for example, the
remote computer might not be working, or the login attempt might fail.  In
such cases, the file remains in the spool directory until it is either
transferred successfully or removed by the \*Luucleanup\*O command.
.LI "\*L-g\*Vgrade\*O" 
Specifies when the files are to be transmitted during a particular
connection.  \*Vgrade\*O is a single number (0-9)
or ASCII letter (A-Z, a-z);
lower ASCII-sequence characters cause
the files to be transmitted earlier than
do higher sequence characters.  The number 0 is the highest (earliest)
grade; z is the lowest (latest).  The default is N.
.LI "\*L-j\*O" 
Displays the job identification number of the process that is running the
command on the specified system.  Use this job number with the
\*Luustat\*O command to check the status of the command, or with
\*Luustat -k\*O to terminate the process.
.LI "\*L-n\*O" 
Prevents user notification
by \*Lmailx\*O of whether the command
executed successfully.  The default is to notify you if
the command fails.
.LI "\*L-p\*O" 
Uses the standard input to \*Luux\*O as the standard input to
\*Vcommand_string\*O.  A \*L-\*O (dash) has the same effect.
.LI "\*L-r\*O" 
Prevents the
starting of the spooling program that transfers files between
systems.  The default is to start the spooling program.
.LI "\*L-s\*Vfile\*O" 
Reports the status of the transfer in a file specified by \*Vfile\*O on
the designated system.
.LI "\*L-x\*Vdebug_level\*O" 
Displays debugging information on the screen of the user's terminal.  The
\*Vdebug_level\*O is a number between 0 and 9.  The
higher number gives a more detailed report.
.LI "\*L-z\*O" 
Notifies you if the command executed successfully on the
specified system.  In that case, you are notified about the failure through
the mail system.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP 
The command gathers various files from the designated systems, if
necessary.  It then runs a specified command on a designated system.
The user can direct the output from the command to a specified file on a
specified system.
(For security reasons, many installations permit \*Luux\*O to run only the
\*Lrmail\*O command.)
.PP 
The \*Luux\*O command creates execute (\*LX.*\*O) files that run
commands on the local system.  In addition, \*Luux\*O also creates
both command (\*LC.*\*O) files and data (\*LD.*\*O) files.
.PP 
Execute files contain the command string to be executed on the designated
system.  Command files contain the same information as those created by the
\*Luucp\*O command.  Data files either contain the data for a remote
command execution, or else become \*LX.*\*O files
on remote systems for remote command executions.
.PP 
The full pathname of an execute file is a form of the following:
.iS
/usr/spool/uucp/\*Vsystem\*L/X.\*VsystemNxxxx\*O
.iE
.PP 
After creating the files in the spooling directory, \*Luux\*O calls
the \*Luucico\*O daemon,
to transfer the files from the spooling directory on the local
system to the designated remote system.  Once the files are transferred,
the \*Luuxqt\*O daemon executes the \*Vcommand_string\*O
on the specified system,
placing any output from the command in a designated file on a
specified system.
.PP 
The \*Vcommand_string\*O variable
is made up of one or more arguments that look like a
command line, except that \*Vcommand_string\*O might be prefixed by
\*Vsystem\*L!\*O.  The default \*Vsystem\*O is the local system.
.PP 
Unless the \*L-n\*O flag is specified, \*Luux\*O notifies you
if the remote system does not run the command.  This response comes by
\*Lmailx\*O from the remote system.
.SS Filenames, Pathnames, and System Names
.PP 
When specifying the destination of the output of a command,
you can enter \*Luux\*O in either one of the following formats:
.ML  
.LI 
\*Luux\*O [\*Voption\*O \&.\&.\&.] \*Vcommand_string\*O > \*Vdestination\*O
.LI
\*Luux\*O [\*Voption\*O \&.\&.\&.] \*Vcommand_string\*O \e{\*Vdestination\*O\e}
.LE 
.PP 
Destination names can be either of the following:
.ML  
.LI 
A full pathname.
.LI
A full pathname preceded by \*L~\*Vuser\*O, where
\*Vuser\*O is a login name on the specified system.  The \*Luux\*O
command replaces this pathname with your login directory.
.LE 
.PP 
The shell pattern-matching characters \*L?\*O, \*L*\*O, and
\*L[\&.\&.\&.]\*O can be used in the pathname of a
source file (such as files compared by the \*Ldiff\*O command);
the appropriate system expands them.
.PP 
Shell pattern-matching characters should not be used in the destination
pathname.
.PP 
Place either two \*L\e\*O (backslashes) or a pair of
\*L" "\*O (double quotes) around pattern-matching
characters in a pathname so the
local shell cannot interpret them before \*Luux\*O sends the command to a
designated system.
If using the special shell characters \*L>\*O, \*L<\*O,
\*L;\*O, or \*L|\*O in a pathname, precede each special
character with \*L\e\*O
or place \*L"\*O\&.\&.\&.\*L"\*O around the entire command string.
Do not use the shell redirection characters
\*L<<\*O or \*L>>\*O in a pathname.
.PP 
The \*Luux\*O command attempts to move all files specified on the
command line to the designated system.  Enclose the names
of all output files in
parentheses so that \*Luux\*O does not try to transfer them.
.PP 
When specifying a \*Vsystem\*O, always place it before the
\*Vcommand_string\*O in the entry.
System names must contain only ASCII characters.
.PP 
The \*L!\*O (exclamation point) preceding the name of the local system
in a command is optional.  If you choose to include the \*L!\*O to
run a command on the local system using files from two different remote
systems, use \*L!\*O instead of \*Vsystem\*O! to represent the local system, and
add \*Vsystem\*O! as the first entry in any pathname on the remote
systems.
.PP 
The exclamation point representing a remote system has a
different meaning in C shells (\*Lcsh\*O).  When running \*Luux\*O in
a C shell, place a \*L\e\*O
(backslash) before the exclamation point in a system name.
.PP 
If the command being executed requests two files stored on the same system,
or two files with the same name that are stored on separate systems, the
command will be executed, but will not produce the desired results.
.PP
The following two commands will be executed:
.iS
uux "nhk!/usr/bin/diff /usr/amy/out1 nhk!/u/amy/out > ~uucp/DF"

uux "nhk!/usr/bin/diff nhk!/usr/amy/out1 XXX!/u/amy/out > ~uucp/DF"
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
(The notation \*L~uucp\*O is the shorthand way of specifying the
public spooling directory \*L/usr/spool/uucppublic\*O.) 
In the first command, \*Ldiff\*O is on system \*Lnhk\*O, the first
source file is on the local system, the second source file
(with a different name)
is on system \*Lnhk\*O, and the output is directed to the
file \*LDF\*O in the public directory on the local system.  In the second
command, \*Ldiff\*O is again on \*Lnhk\*O, the first file is also
on \*Lnhk\*O, the second file (with a different name) is on
\*LXXX\*O, and the output is again directed to \*LDF\*O in the
\*L~uucp\*O directory.
.PP
The following command will not be executed properly:
.iS
uux "nhk!/usr/bin/diff XXX!/u/amy/out merl!/u/amy/out > ~uucp/DF"
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This command will not be executed because,
although the files are on two different systems, they still
have the same filename.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
.AL 3m 
.LI
To run the \*Llp\*O command on a remote system, enter:
.iS
uux merl!lp /reports/memos/lance
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
In this example, the file \*L/reports/memos/lance\*O is printed on
the remote system \*Lmerl\*O.  Unless the \*L-n\*O flag or the
\*L-z\*O flag is specified, the \*Luux\*O command notifies you
if the remote system fails to run the command.  The response comes
by the \*Lmailx\*O command from the remote system.
.LI
To run commands on two remote systems, enter the information on
separate command lines, enter:
.iS
uux merl!print /reports/memos/lance
uux zeus!print /test/examples/examp1
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
In this example, the file \*L/reports/memos/lance\*O is printed on
the remote system \*Lmerl\*O, and the file
\*L/test/examples/examp1\*O is printed on the remote system
\*Lzeus\*O.
.LI
To get the \*Vjob_number\*O of a job and then compare a file on the local
system \*Lzeus\*O with a file on a remote system when the \*Ldiff\*O
command is stored on the local system, use either of the following formats:
.iS
uux -j "/usr/bin/diff /usr/amy/f1 nhk!/u/amy/f2 > ~uucp/f1.diff"
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
or
.iS
uux -j /usr/bin/diff /usr/amy/f1 nhk!/u/amy/f2 \e{~uucp/f1/diff\e}
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This command gets the file \*L/usr/amy/f1\*O from the remote system
\*Lnhk\*O, compares it to the file \*L/u/amy/f2\*O on the local
system \*Lzeus\*O, and places the output of the command in the local
public directory in a file named \*Lf1.diff\*O.  (The full pathname of
this file is \*L/usr/spool/uucppublic/f1.diff\*O.)  Using the \*L-j\*O
flag produces the output \*LzeusN52d9\*O.
.PP
As shown in the example, the destination name must be entered
in one of two ways:
.ML
.LI
Preceded by a \*L>\*O (redirection symbol)
with the whole command string enclosed in \*L"\*O\&.\&.\&.\*L"\*O
(double quotes)
.LI
Enclosed in braces and backslashes, as \*L\e{\*O\&.\&.\&.\*L\e}\*O
.LE
.LI
To compare files that are located on two different remote systems,
\*Lnhk\*O and \*LXXX\*O, using the \*Ldiff\*O command on the
local system, enter:
.iS
uux "!/usr/bin/diff nhk!/usr/amy/f1 XXX!/u/amy/f2 > !f1.diff"
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This command gets the file \*L/usr/amy/f1\*O from the system
\*Lnhk\*O and the file \*L/u/amy/f2\*O from \*LXXX\*O,  runs
a \*Ldiff\*O command on the two files, and places the results
in the file \*Lf1.diff\*O, located
in the current working directory on the local system.
.PP
Additional points:
.ML
.LI
This output file must be write enabled.  If you are uncertain about the
permission status of a specific target output file, direct the results to the
public directory.
.LI
The exclamation points representing the local system are optional.
.LI
Both of the examples above use a \*L>\*O (redirection
symbol) preceding the name of the
output file.  When using the special shell characters \*L>\*O, \*L<\*O,
\*L;\*O, or \*L|\*O, either quote the entire \*Vcommand_string\*O, or
quote the special characters as individual arguments.
.LE
.LI
To specify an output file on a different remote system, enter:
.iS
uux nhk!uucp XXX!/u/amy/f1 \e{merl!/u/geo/test\e}
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This command runs \*Luucp\*O on the remote system \*Lnhk\*O.  The
\*Luucp\*O command then sends the file \*L/u/amy/f1\*O, stored on
system \*LXXX\*O, to user \*Lgeo\*O on system \*Lmerl\*O as
\*Ltest\*O.
.LI
To get selected fields from a file on remote system \*Lnhk\*O and
place them in a file on the local system, enter:
.iS
uux "cut -f1 -d: nhk\e!/etc/passwd > ~uucp/passw.cut"
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
This command runs \*Lcut\*O on the local system, gets the first
field from each line of the password file on system
\*Lnhk\*O, and places the output in the file \*Lpassw.cut\*O
in the public directory on the local system.
.PP
In this example, \*Luux\*O is running in a C shell, so a \*L\e\*O
(backslash) must precede the \*L!\*O (exclamation point)
in the name of the remote system.
.LE 
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucp\*O"
Spooling directory.
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp\*O" 
Contains the \*Luucico\*O daemon.
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/uucppublic\*O" 
Public directory.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lct\*O(1), \*Lcu\*O(1), \*Lmailx\*O(1)/\*LMail\*O(1),
\*Lrmail\*O(1), \*Lsendmail\*O(8), \*Ltip\*O(1), \*Luucico\*O(8),
\*Luucleanup\*O(8), \*Luucp\*O(1), \*Luuencode\*O(1)/\*Luudecode\*O(1),
\*Luulog\*O(1), \*Luuname\*O(1), \*Luupick\*O(1), \*Luusched\*O(8),
\*Luusend\*O(1), \*Luustat\*O(1), \*Luuto\*O(1).
.\", \*Luuxqt\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
