.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH uuxqt 1
.SH NAME
\*Luuxqt\*O \- Executes remote command requests 
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Luuxqt\*O [\*L-s\*Vsystem\f1\*O] [\*L-x\*Vdebug_level\f1\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Luuxqt\*O program executes specified commands on designated remote
systems.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 
.LI "\*L-s\*O\*Vsystem\*O" 
Specifies the name of the remote system.  Use this flag
only when starting \*Luuxqt\*O manually.  The remote system
name is supplied internally when \*Luuxqt\*O is started
automatically.
.LI "\*L-x\*O\*Vdebug_level\*O"
Displays debugging information on the screen of the
local system; \*Vdebug_level\*O is a single digit between 0
and 9.  The higher the number specified, the more
detailed the debugging information displayed.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "uuxqt command"
.iX "executing remote commands"
.iX "UUCP" "executing remote commands"
.PP 
When \*Luux\*O is entered by a user, the program creates the
necessary \*LC.*\*O (Command), \*LD.*\*O (Data),
and \*LX.*\*O (Execute) files and places them in
the spooling directory on the designated remote system.  The \*Luux\*O
command then calls the \*Luucico\*O daemon which in turn, tries to contact
the designated system to deliver the files.  When the files are
transferred, \*Luuxqt\*O executes the commands on the designated system.
.PP
The \*Luuxqt\*O program searches the spool directories on the designated
system for the \*LX.*\*O (Execute) files whose names indicate 
that they were sent from
another system.  The command checks each \*LX.*\*O file for the following:
.ML
.LI
All of the required \*LD.*\*O (Data) files must be available and
accessible.
.LI
File commands must be permitted for the requesting system.
.LE
.PP
The \*Luuxqt\*O program can be executed manually by a user with superuser
privileges.  This daemon is executed automatically by
the \*Luudemon.hour\*O shell script, which is started periodically
by \*Lcron\*O.
.SH FILES
.VL
.LI "\*L/var/spool/locks/LCK*\*O"
Lock file which prevents multiple use of device
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Maxuuxqts\*O"
Limits number of remote command executions
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/uucp/Permissions\*O"
Access permission codes
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
Commands:  \*Luucico\*O(8), \*Luucp\*O(1), \*Luustat\*O(1), \*Luux\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
