.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vacation.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/14 13:48:57 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH vacation 1
.SH NAME
\*Lvacation\*O \- Informs senders of mail that recipient is absent
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lvacation -I\*O
.sE
.PP
The \*Lvacation\*O command returns a message to the sender
of a mail message, saying that the recipient is on vacation or otherwise
absent.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-I\*O"
Initializes the \*L$HOME/\&.vacation\&.pag\*O and
\*L$HOME/\&.vacation.dir\*O files.  Execute this flag
before you modify your \*L$HOME/\&.forward\*O file.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "vacation command"
.iX "mail" "informing senders of user's absence"
.iX "automatic reply to mail"
.iX "mail" "automatic reply"
.PP 
The \*Lvacation\*O command accepts standard input and attempts to send a
vacation message to the user specified in that input, which should be a
mail message.  \*Lvacation\*O is usually invoked in your
\*L$HOME/\&.forward\*O file, which is used to forward your mail to another
username.  When you wish vacation messages to be sent to users who send you
mail, enter the following in your \*L$HOME/\&.forward\*O file:
.iS
\e\*Vuser\*L, "|vacation \*Vuser\*O"
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
where \*Vuser\*O is your username.  This allows mail sent to you to be
both received by you \*Vand\*O piped to the \*Lvacation\*O command;
\*Lvacation\*O reads the mail message, determines the sender, and sends a
reply.  The sender receives a vacation message, and the original mail
is waiting in your mailbox when you return.
.PP 
When \*Lvacation\*O is invoked without the \*L-I\*O flag, as in the
\*L\&.forward\*O file, it reads the first line from the standard input
for a \*LFrom\*O line to determine the sender.
If this is not present, an error message is produced.
(All properly formatted incoming mail should include a \*LFrom\*O line.)
No vacation message is sent if the \*LFrom\*O header line indicates
that the message is from \*LPostmaster\*O; from \*LMAILER-DAEMON\*O;
if the initial \*LFrom\*O line includes the string \*L-REQUEST@\*O; or
if a \*LPrecedence: bulk\*O or \*LPrecedence: junk\*O line is included
in the header.
.PP 
You must initialize \*Lvacation\*O for your username by issuing the command
\*Lvacation -I\*O before you can use the \*Lvacation\*O command.
.PP 
The \*Lvacation\*O command expects a \*L$HOME/\&.vacation.msg\*O
file containing a message to be sent back to each sender.
The \*L\&.vacation.msg\*O file should be an entire message, including
any desired headers, such as \*LFrom\*O or \*LSubject\*O.  This message
will be sent only once a week to each unique message sender.
(If this file does not exist, \*Lvacation\*O uses \*L/usr/lib/vacation.def\*O,
a system-wide default vacation message, if it exists.)
.PP 
The names of people who have sent you messages are kept in the files
\*L$HOME/\&.vacation.pag\*O and \*L$HOME/\&.vacation.dir\*O.
These files are created when you initialize \*Lvacation\*O for your username
with \*Lvacation -I\*O.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
If you username is \*Lmyra\*O and you want to send a message once a week
to each person who has sent you mail, initialize \*Lvacation\*O by entering:
.iS
vacation -I
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
Next, add the following line to your \*L$HOME/\&.forward\*O file (create this
file if it does not exist):
.iS
\emyra, "|vacation myra"
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
If you want to send a vacation message other than the system default message
in \*L/usr/lib/vacation.def\*O, create the file \*L\&.vacation.msg\*O in your
home directory and enter the message in it.  For example:
.iS
From: myra@k.table (Myra Louise Minter)
Subject: I am on vacation.
Delivered-By-the-Graces-Of: the Vacation program

I am on vacation until October 1.  If you have something urgent,
please telephone Lucy or Sue.

	-- Myra
\*O\c
.iE
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/lib/vacation.def\*O"
System-wide default \*Lvacation\*O message.
.LI "\*L$HOME/\&.forward\*O" 
Contains address to which mail is forwarded.
.LI "\*L$HOME/\&.vacation.dir\*O" 
Contains the names of people who have sent you mail while the
\*Lvacation\*O command was being used.
.LI "\*L$HOME/\&.vacation.pag\*O" 
Contains the names of people who have sent you mail while the
\*Lvacation\*O command was being used.
.LI "\*L$HOME/\&.vacation.msg\*O" 
Contains your personal \*Lvacation\*O message.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lmail\*O(1)/\*Lbinmail\*O(1), \*Lmailx\*O(1)/\*LMail\*O(1),
\*Lsendmail\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
