.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: val.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/14 16:37:37 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH val 1
.SH NAME
\*Lval\*O \- Validates Source Code Control System (SCCS) files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lval\*O
\*O[\*L-m\*Videntifier\*O]
\*O[\*L-r\*VSID\*O]
\*O[\*L-s\*O]
\*O[\*L-y\*Vtype\*O
\&.\&.\&.]
\*Vfile\*O
\&.\&.\&.
|
\*L-\*O
.sE
.PP
The \*Lval\*O command reads files and determines whether each
specified file is an SCCS file
meeting the characteristics specified by the flags.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
Each flag or group of flags applies independently to each named file.
The flags can be entered in any order.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-m\*Videntifier\*O"
Compares the value \*Videntifier\*O with the SCCS \*L%\&M%\*O
identification keyword in \*Vfile\*O.  See the \*Lget\*O command for
more information on the \*L%\&M%\*O keyword.
.LI "\*L-r\*VSID\*O"
Specifies the SID (SCCS ID) of the file to be validated.
The SID must be valid and unambiguous.
.gL "SID"
.gL "SCCS ID"
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Suppresses the error message normally written to standard output.
.LI "\*L-y\*Vtype\*O"
Specifies a type to compare with the SCCS \*L%\&Y%\*O
identification keyword in \*Vfile\*O.
See the \*Lget\*O command for more information on the \*L%\&Y%\*O keyword.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "val command"
.iX "files" "validating SCCS"
.iX "SCCS" "validating files"
.PP
If you specify a \*L-\*O (dash) for \*Vfile\*O,
\*Lval\*O reads standard input and interprets each line of standard
input as \*Lval\*O flags and the name of a file.
An End-of-File key sequence terminates input.
.PP
The \*Lval\*O command displays error messages to standard output
for each file processed.  The \*Lval\*O command also returns a single 8-bit
code upon exit.
.PP
The 8-bit code indicates possible mismatches or errors.
It is interpreted as a bit string, in which set bits (from left to right)
are interpreted as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lbit 0\*O"
Missing file argument
.LI "\*Lbit 1\*O"
Unknown or duplicate flag
.LI "\*Lbit 2\*O"
Damaged SCCS file
.LI "\*Lbit 3\*O"
Cannot open file or file not SCCS
.LI "\*Lbit 4\*O"
SID is invalid
.LI "\*Lbit 5\*O"
SID does not exist
.LI "\*Lbit 6\*O"
\*L%\&Y%\*O, \*L-y\*O mismatch
.LI "\*Lbit 7\*O"
\*L%\&M%\*O, \*L-m\*O mismatch
.LE
.PP
When \*Lval\*O processes two or more files on a given command
line or multiple command lines (when reading the standard input), a code
is returned that is a logical OR of the codes generated for
each command line and file processed.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To determine if file \*Ls.test.c\*O is an SCCS text file, enter:
.oS
val -ytext s.test.c
\*O\c
.oE
.PP
or:
.oS
val -
-ytext s.test.c
<Ctrl-d>
\*O\c
.oE
.PP
where \*L<Ctrl-d>\*O is the End-of-File key sequence.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Ladmin\*O(1), \*Lcdc\*O(1), \*Lcomb\*O(1), \*Ldelta\*O(1),
\*Lget\*O(1), \*Lprs\*O(1), \*Lrmdel\*O(1), \*Lsact\*O(1), \*Lsccsdiff\*O(1),
\*Lsccshelp\*O(1), \*Lunget\*O(1), \*Lwhat\*O(1).
.PP
Files:  \*Lsccsfile\*O(4).
.PP
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
