.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vdoc.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/09/01 08:44:59 $
.\" 
.TH vdoc 1
.SH Name
vdoc \- invokes CDA Viewer for character-cell displays
.SH Syntax
.B vdoc
[ \-f \f2format\fP ] [ \-O \f2options_file\fP ]  [\-r] 
[-w \f2paper_width\fP] [-h \f2paper_height\fP] [-p] \f2inputfile\fP
.SH Description
.NXR "vdoc command"
The 
.cs
vdoc
command invokes the CDA Viewer that enables you to view 
\f2inputfile\fP on a character-cell terminal.
If \f2inputfile\fP is not specified,
.cs
vdoc
reads \f2from standard input\fP.
.SH Options
.TP 10
.B \-f \f2format\fP
Specifies the format of \f2inputfile\fP and invokes an appropriate input
converter. The DDIF, DTIF and Text input
converters are provided in the DEC OSF/1 OSFCDABASE subset or
the DEC CDA Run-Time Services kit. 
You can add additional converters by other layered products.
Contact your system manager for a complete list of the input formats
supported on your system. The default format is \f2DDIF\fP.
.TP 10
.B \-O \f2options_file\fP
Names the file passed to the input converter to control specific processing
options in that converter. Refer to your documentation set for
a description of converter options.
.IP "" 10
The options file has a default file type of .cda_options. Each line of the
options file specifies a format name that can optionally be 
followed by \f2_input\fP or \f2_output\fP to restrict the 
option to either an input or output
converter. The second word is a valid option preceded by one or more spaces, 
tabs, or a slash (/) and can contain upper- and lowercase letters, numbers, 
dollar signs, and underlines. The case of letters is not significant. If an 
option requires a value, then spaces, tabs, or an equal sign can separate the
option from the value. 
.IP "" 10
You can precede any line by spaces and tabs.
To terminate a line, use
any character other than those used to specify
the format names and options. 
The syntax and interpretation of
the text that follows the format name is specified by the supplier of the
front and back end converters for the specified format. 
.IP "" 10
To specify several options for the same input or output format, specify one
option on a line. If an invalid option for an input or output format or an
invalid value for an option is specified, the option may be ignored or an
error message may be returned. Each input or output format that supports
processing options specifies any restrictions or special formats required
when specifying options. 
.IP "" 10
By default, any messages that occur during processing of the options file 
are written to the system \f2standard error location\fP.  For those
input formats that support a LOG option, messages can be directed to a
log file.
.TP 10
.B \-r
Specifies that the CDA Viewer is to override the format of the document. If
the \-r qualifier is not specified, the CDA Viewer retains the formatting
information stored in the document. 
.TP 10
.B \-w \f2paper_width\fP
Specifies the paper width in units of characters. The \-w qualifier always
specifies the fallback formatted document page width to be used when the \-r
(override format) qualifier is specified or when the document has no
inherent format. When used with the \-p (page mode) qualifier, the display
page width is determined from the terminal and is unrelated to the
formatted page width. In nonpage mode, the specified \-w value is used for
both fallback document page width and the display page width. If the \-w
qualifier is not specified, the default width is 80 characters.
.TP 10
.B \-h \f2paper_height\fP
Specifies the paper height in units of characters.
The \-h qualifier always specifies the fallback formatted
document page height to be used when the \-r (override format) qualifier is
specified or when the document has no inherent format. When used with the
-p (page mode) qualifier, the display page height is determined from the
terminal and is unrelated to the formatted page height. In nonpage mode,
the specified \-h value is used for both fallback document page height and
the display page height. If the \-h qualifier is not specified, the default
height is dependent on the document.
.TP 10
.B \-p
Specifies that the CDA Viewer is to pause after displaying each page. The
user can also page backward and go directly to the top or bottom of the
document. If the \-p qualifier is not specified, the CDA Viewer displays
each page without pausing.
.SH See Also
cdoc(1), dxvdoc(1X), cda(4),
cda_msg(4), ddif(4), dtif(4), dvr_msg(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
