.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vmstat.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.8.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/03 18:57:32 $
.\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
...\"build rmifdef
.TH vmstat 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lvmstat\*O \- Shows Mach virtual memory statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX "vmstat command"
.iX "Mach virtual memory statistics"
.iX "displaying" "Mach virtual memory statistics"
.iX "virtual memory statistics"
.iX "statistics" "virtual memory"
.iX "memory" "statistics"
.sS
\*Lvmstat\*O
\*Vinterval\*O
\*O[\*Vcount\*O]
.PP
\*Lvmstat\*O
\*O[\*L\-f\*O
|
\*L\-s\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lvmstat\*O
command displays statistics kept about virtual memory, processes, trap,
and CPU activity.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
If you specify \*Vinterval\*O, \*Lvmstat\*O
displays the statistics listed below every interval
seconds.  The first report is for all time since a reboot, and each
subsequent report is for the last interval only.  If you specify \*Vcount\*O
after \*Vinterval\*O, \*Vcount\*O specifies the
number of reports.  For example, \*Lvmstat 1 10\*O produces 10
reports at 1-second intervals.  You cannot specify \*Vcount\*O
without \*Vinterval\*O, since the first numeric argument to
\*Lvmstat\*O is always assumed to be \*Vinterval\*O.
.PP
At any time, system memory can be in use by the kernel in kseg,
wired (pages that are currently in use and
cannot be used for paging), on the active list (pages that are currently
in use but can be used for paging), on the inactive list (pages that are
allocated but are most likely to be used for paging), on the free list
(pages that are clean and available for use), or used by the
Unified Buffer Cache (UBC).  The \*Lvmstat\*O command does not
report on the memory in kseg and memory used by the UBC.
.PP
The following values are displayed:
.PP
Process information:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lr\*O"
Number of threads that are running or are runable.
.LI "\*Lw\*O"
Number of threads waiting interruptibly.
.LI "\*Lu\*O"
Number of threads waiting uninterruptibly.
.LE
.PP
Virtual memory information:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lact\*O"
Total number of pages on the active list, the inactive list
(pages that are allocated but are most likely to be used
for paging), and the Unified Buffer Cache (UBC)
least recently used (LRU) list.
.LI "\*Lfree\*O"
Total number of pages that are clean and available for use.
.LI "\*Lwire\*O"
Total number of pages that are currently in use and cannot be used for
paging (not a real list).
.LI "\*Lfault\*O"
Number of address translation faults that have occurred.
.LI "\*Lcow\*O"
Number of copy-on-write page faults, which occur if the requested
page is shared by a parent process and one or
more child processes (using the \*Lfork\*O
function) and if one of the processes needs to modify the page.  In
this case, VM loads a
new address into the translation buffer and copies the contents of the
requested page into the new address for modification by the process.
.LI "\*Lzero\*O"
Number of zero-filled-on-demand page faults, which occur
if VM cannot find the page in the internal data structures and if the
requested page is new and has never been referenced.  In this case,
VM initializes a
physical page (the contents of the page are zeroed out) and loads the
address into the page table.
.LI "\*Lreact\*O"
Number of pages that have been faulted while on the inactive list.
.LI "\*Lpin\*O"
Number of requests for pages from a pager.
.LI "\*Lpout\*O"
Number of pages that have been paged out.
.LE
.PP
Interrupt information:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lin\*O"
Number of nonclock device interrupts per second.
.LI "\*Lsy\*O"
Number of system calls called per second.
.LI "\*Lcs\*O"
Number of task and thread context switches per second.
.LE
.PP
CPU information:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lus\*O"
Percentage of user time for normal and priority processes.
.LI "\*Lsy\*O"
Percentage of system time.
.LI "\*Lid\*O"
Percentage of idle time.
.LE
.PP
Specify \*L\-f\*O to display fork statistics only.  Specify \*L\-s\*O for a
single display of accumulated statistics, as well as page size.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-f\*O"
Displays only statistics about the number of forks since system startup
(see the \*Lfork()\*O call).
.LI "\*L\-s\*O"
Displays the following accumulated statistics along with the page size:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lactive pages\*O"
Total number of pages that are currently in use but can be used for paging.
.LI "\*Linactive pages\*O"
Total number of VM pages that are allocated but are most likely to be used
for paging.
.LI "\*Lfree pages\*O"
Total number of unreferenced (clean) pages that are available for use.
.LI "\*Lwire pages\*O"
Total number of pages that are currently in use and cannot be used for
paging (not a real list).
.LI "\*Lvirtual memory page faults\*O"
Number of address translation faults that have occurred.
.LI "\*Lcopy-on-write page faults\*O"
Number of copy-on-write page faults, which occur if the requested
page is shared by a parent process and one or
more child processes (using the \*Lfork\*O
function) and if one of the processes needs to modify the page.  In
this case, VM loads a
new address into the translation buffer and copies the contents of the
requested page into the new address for modification by the process.
.LI "\*Lzero file page faults\*O"
Number of zero-filled-on-demand page faults, which occur
if VM cannot find the page in the internal data structures and if the
requested page is new and has never been referenced.  In this case,
VM initializes a
physical page (the contents of the page are zeroed out) and loads the
address into the page table.
.LI "\*Lreattaches from reclaim list\*O"
Number of pages that have been faulted while on the inactive list.
.LI "\*Lpages paged in\*O"
Number of requests for pages from a pager.
.LI "\*Lpages paged out\*O"
Number of pages that have been paged out.
.LI "\*Ltask and thread context switches\*O"
Number of task and thread context switches per second.
.LI "\*Ldevice interrupts\*O"
Number of nonclock device interrupts per second.
.LI "\*Lsystem calls\*O"
Number of system calls called per second.
.LE
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Liostat\*O(1).
.\".PP 
.\"Functions:  \*Ltable\*O(2). 
.EQ
delim off
.EN
