.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vquota.1,v $ $Revision: 1.1.2.6 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/22 20:20:09 $
.\"
.TH vquota 1
.PP
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lvquota\*O \- displays disk usage and limits
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.iX  "vquota command"
.sS
\*Lvquota\*O
\*O[\*L\-g\*O]
\*O[\*Vgroup\*O]
\*O[\*L\-u\*O]
\*O[\*Vuser\*O]
\*O[\*L\-q\*O
|
\*L\-v\*O]
.sE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-g\*O\ \*Vgroup\*O"
.iX "Displaying" "group quota"
.iX "Quota" "displaying"
Displays group quotas for groups of which you are a member, in addition to
your user quotas, when specified without the \*Vgroup\*O argument.
Displays group quotas for \*Vgroup\*O when you specify \*Vgroup\*O.
.LI "\*L\-q\*O"
.iX "Quota" "exceeding"
.iX "Fileset" "exceeding quota"
Prints information only for filesets where usage is over quota.
Takes precedence over the \*L\-v\*O flag.
.LI "\*L\-u\*O\ \*Vuser\*O"
.iX "Displaying" "user quota"
Displays only your user quotas (the default) when specified
without the \*Vuser\*O argument.  Displays user quotas for
\*Vuser\*O when you specify \*Vuser\*O.
.LI "\*L\-v\*O"
Displays quota information for all mounted filesets, regardless of
whether the user has any files on a given fileset, or whether
quotas are enabled on that fileset.  The \*L\-q\*O flag
takes precedence over the \*L\-v\*O flag.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Displaying" "disk quota"
.iX "Displaying" "disk usage"
.iX "Disk quota" "displaying"
.iX "Disk usage" "displaying"
.PP
The \*Lvquota\*O command displays users' disk usage and limits.
.PP
By default only your user quotas are printed.  If you use the \*L\-g\*O
flag, the
\*Lvquota\*O command displays group quotas for the groups of which you are a member.
Only a user with superuser authority can use the optional \*Vuser\*O
argument with the \*L\-u\*O flag to view information about another user,
or use the optional \*Vgroup\*O argument with the \*L\-g\*O flag to view information about a group to which that user does not belong.
.PP
Unless you use the \*L\-v\*O flag,
the \*Lvquota\*O command reports only on filesets listed in
\*L/etc/fstab\*O that have disk quotas.  If \*Lvquota\*O exits with a nonzero
status, and there are no other errors, then one or more filesets are over
quota.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 14m
.LI "[\*Vfileset_root\*O]/\*Lquota.user\*O"
Contains user quotas for each fileset.
.LI "[\*Vfileset_root\*O]/\*Lquota.group\*O"
Contains group quotas for each fileset.
.LI "\*L/etc/fstab\*O"
Contains fileset names and locations.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lvedquota\*O(8), \*Lvquot\*O(8), \*Lvquotacheck\*O(8),
\*Lvquotaon\*O(8), \*Lvquoatoff\*O(8), \*Lvrepquota\*O(8),
\*Lquota\*O(2), \*Lquotactl\*O(2), \*Lsetquota\*O(2), \*Lfstab\*O(4).
.iX "-: Quota" "Limit"
.iX "-: Group quota" "Quota"
.iX "-: User quota" "Quota"
.EQ
delim off
.EN
