.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: w.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/28 19:55:28 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.TH w 1
.SH NAME
\*Lw\*O \- Prints a summary of current system activity
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lw\*O
\*O[\*L\-fm\*O]
\*O[\*L\-h\*O]
\*O[\*L\-l\*O
|
\*L\-s\*O]
\*O[\*Vuser\*O]
.PP 
\*Lw\*O
\*L\-u\*O
\*O[\*L\-m\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lw\*O command prints a summary of the current activity on the
system, followed by information about users on the system.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "w command"
.iX "displaying" "user information"
.iX "displaying" "active process information"
.iX "displaying" "system activity"
.iX "users" "displaying information about"
.iX "processes" "displaying information about"
.iX "systems" "displaying information about"
.PP 
The system summary shows the current time, the amount of time since the system
was last started, the number of users logged in to the system, and the load
averages.  The load average numbers give the number of jobs in the run queue
for the last 5 seconds, the last 30 seconds, and the last 60 seconds.
The Mach factor is a variant of the load average, given for the same
intervals; the closer its value to \*L0\*O (zero), the higher the load.
.PP 
The information displayed for each user includes:
.ML  
.LI 
Who is logged in.
.LI
What each user is doing.
.LI
The abbreviated name of the tty or pty each user is on.
.LI
The location, such as a remote site, from which each user logged in.
.LI
The time of day each user logged in.
.LI
The number of minutes since each user last entered data at the
keyboard.
.LI
The name and arguments of the current process.
.LI
The system unit time used by the current process (PCPU).
.LI
The system unit time used by all processes and their children on
that system (JPCU).
.LE 
.PP 
If you specify a \*Vuser\*O, output is restricted to that user.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-f\*O"
Suppresses the \*Lfrom\*O field.
.LI "\*L\-h\*O" 
Suppresses the system summary and the heading line.
.LI "\*L\-l\*O" 
Prints information in the long format.  This is the default.
.LI "\*L\-m\*O" 
Prints the Mach factor instead of the load average in the system summary.
.LI "\*L\-s\*O" 
Prints the information in short format.  In the short form,
the login time, system unit time, and command
arguments are omitted.
.LI "\*L\-u\*O" 
Prints the system summary only.  Using this flag is equivalent to
entering the \*Luptime\*O command.
.LE 
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/var/adm/utmp\*O"
Contains user and accounting information.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands: \*Lfinger\*O(1), \*Lps\*O(1), \*Luptime\*O(1), 
\*Lusers\*O(1), \*Lwho\*O(1). 
.EQ
delim off
.EN
