.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: wall.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/28 19:55:45 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.TH wall 1
.SH NAME
\*Lwall\*O \- Sends a message to all users
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lwall\*O
\*O[\*Vfile\*O]
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "wall command"
.iX "sending" "messages to all users"
.iX "messages" "sending to all users"
.iX "users" "sending a message to all"
.PP 
The \*Lwall\*O command reads from standard input until
you press the End-of-File key sequence, or takes its input from
the contents of \*Vfile\*O if you specify it, and sends the input as
a message to all users who are logged in.  The message is preceded
by the heading:
.oS
Broadcast Message from \*Vuser\*C@\*Vnode\*C (\*Vtty\*C) at \*Vhh\*C:\*Vmm\*C\c
.oE
.PP
where \*Vuser\*O is the user invoking \*Lwall\*O, \*Vnode\*O and \*Vtty\*O are
the node and terminal of that user, and \*Vhh\*C:\*Vmm\*O is the time
of the message.
.PP 
To override any protections other users have set up, you must be
operating with superuser authority.  Typically, the root user uses
\*Lwall\*O to warn all users of an impending system shutdown.
.PP 
The \*Lwall\*O command sends messages to the local node only.
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 
.LI "\*L/dev/tty*\*O"
To suspend error messages.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lmesg\*O(1), \*Lsu\*O(1), \*Ltalk\*O(1), \*Lwrite\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
