.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: wc.1,v $ $Revision: 3.3.5.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/19 20:02:05 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH wc 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lwc\*O \- Counts the lines, words, characters, and bytes in a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lwc\*O
\*O[\*L-clmw\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O
\&...]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lwc\*O command counts the lines, words, characters, and bytes
in a file, or in the standard input if you do not specify any files,
and writes the results to standard output.  It also keeps a total count
for all named files.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Counts bytes only.
.LI "\*L-l\*O"
Counts lines only.
.LI "\*L-m\*O"
Counts characters only.
.LI "\*L-w\*O"
Counts words only.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "wc command"
.iX "counting lines, words, and bytes"
.iX "lines" "counting"
.iX "words" "counting"
.iX "bytes" "counting"
.iX "files" "counting lines, words, and bytes"
A word is defined as a string of characters delimited by white space as
defined in the X/Open Base Definitions for XCU4.
.PP
The \*Lwc\*O command counts lines, words, and bytes by default.
Use the appropriate flags to limit \*Lwc\*O output.
Specifying \*Lwc\*O without flags is the equivalent of specifying \*Lwc -lwc\*O.
.PP
The order in which counts appear in the output line
matches the order in which the flags are entered on the command line.
(If you do not specify any flags, the order is lines, words, bytes.)
.PP
When you specify more than one file, \*Lwc\*O displays the name of the file
along with the counts.
.\" .SS Japanese Language Support
.\" .PP 
.\" if Japanese Language support is enabled on your system, you can specify an
.\" Additional flag, \*L-k\*O, along with \*L-c\*O (^He.g. \*Lwc -ck\*O)
.\" to count characters rather than bytes.  Otherwise, \*L-c\*O counts bytes
.\" when JLS is enabled.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Removed extra 'the' per QAR 6887.
To display the number of lines, words, and bytes in the file
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
\*Ltext\*O, enter:
.iS
wc text
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This results in the following output:
.oS
27 185 722 text
\*O\c
.oE

The numbers \*L27\*O, \*L185\*O, and \*L722\*O are the number of lines, words,
and bytes, respectively, in the file \*Ltext\*O.
.LI
To display only one or two of the three counts, or to display the
counts you want in a particular order, include the appropriate flags in the
order you want.  For example, the following command displays only
byte and line counts:
.iS
wc -cl text
.iE
.oS
722 27 text
\*O\c
.oE
.LI
To count lines, words, and bytes
in more than one file, use \*Lwc\*O
with more than one input file or with a filename pattern.  For example,
the following command can be
issued in a directory containing the files \*Ltext\*O, \*Ltext1\*O, and
\*Ltext2\*O:
.iS
wc -l text*
.iE
.oS
27	text
112	text1
5	text2
144	total
\*O\c
.oE
.IP
The numbers \*L27\*O, \*L112\*O, and \*L5\*O are the numbers of lines in
the files \*Ltext\*O, \*Ltext1\*O, and \*Ltext2\*O, respectively, and
\*L144\*O is the total number of lines in the three files.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands: \*Lls\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
