.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: what.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/15 19:55:00 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH what 1
.SH NAME
\*Lwhat\*O \- Displays identifying information for Source Code Control System (SCCS) files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lwhat\*O
\*O[\*L-s\*O]
\*Vfile\*O
\&...
.sE
.PP
The \*Lwhat\*O command searches the named \*Vfiles\*O for all
occurrences of the pattern that \*Lget\*O(1) substitutes for the
\*L%\&Z%\*O keyletter, and writes to standard output whatever follows
until the first  ", >, newline, \\ or NUL character..
.gL "keyletter"
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Searches for just the first occurrence of \*L@(#)\*O.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "what command"
.iX "displaying" "SCCS files identifying information"
.iX "files" "displaying SCCS identifying information"
.iX "SCCS" "identifying files"
.iX "identifying" "SCCS files"
.PP
By convention, the value substituted by \*Lget\*O(1) for the
\*L%\&Z%\*O keyletter is \*L@(#)\*O.  (See the \*Lget\*O(1) command or
the \*Lprs\*O(1) command for a description of identification keywords.)
.PP
The \*Lwhat\*O command writes to standard output whatever follows the
pattern up to but not including the first \*L"\*O (double quote),
\*L>\*O (redirection symbol), newline
character, \e (backslash), or null character.  If you specify more than one
\*Vfile\*O, each line of output is preceded
by the name of the file it is read from; otherwise, the filename is not
displayed.  If no file is specified, \*Lwhat\*O reads from standard input.
.PP
The \*Lwhat\*O command is intended for use in conjunction with
the \*Lget\*O command, which automatically inserts the identifying
information.  You can also use the \*Lwhat\*O command on files where the
information is inserted manually.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Suppose that the file \*Ltest.c\*O contains a C program
that includes the line:
.iS
char ident[ ] = "@(#)Test Program";
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
If you compile \*Ltest.c\*O to produce \*Ltest.o\*O
and \*La.out\*O, then entering the command:
.iS
what test.c test.o a.out
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
displays:
.oS
test.c:
	Test Program
test.o:
	Test Program
a.out:
	Test Program
\*O\c
.oE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PP
The following exit values are returned:
.VL 3m
.LI "\*L0\*O"
Matches were found.
.LI "\*L1\*O"
No matches were found.
.LE
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.PP
The following environment variables affect the execution of \*Lwhat\*O:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*LLANG\*O"
Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are
unset or null. If \*LLANG\*O is unset or null, the corresponding value
from the implementation-specific default locale is used. If any of the
internationalization variables contains an invalid setting, the utility
behaves as if none of the variables had been defined.
.LI "\*LLC_ALL\*O"
If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the other
internationalization variables.
.LI "\*LLC_TYPE\*O"
Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of
text data as characters (for example, single, as opposed to multi-byte,
characters in arguments and input files).
.LI "\*LLC_MESSAGES\*O"
Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and
contents of diagnostic messages written to standard error.
.LI "\*LNLSPATH\*O"
Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of
\*LLC_MESSAGES\*O.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Ladmin\*O(1), \*Lcdc\*O(1), \*Lcomb\*O(1), \*Ldelta\*O(1),
\*Lget\*O(1), \*Lprs\*O(1), \*Lrmdel\*O(1), \*Lsact\*O(1), \*Lsccsdiff\*O(1),
\*Lsccshelp\*O(1), \*Lunget\*O(1), \*Lval\*O(1).
.PP
Files:  \*Lsccsfile\*O(4).
.PP
\*EProgramming Support Tools\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
