.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: whatis.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/08/30 18:36:42 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH whatis 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lwhatis\*O \- Describes a command's function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lwhatis\*O
\*O[\*L-M\*O
\*Vpathname\*O]
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Changed the SYNOPSIS per Grant Sullivan.  The command requires that
.\" you specify a keyword.
\*Vkeyword\*O \&...
.\" \*O[\*Vkeyword\*O
.\" \&...]
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.sE
.PP
The \*Lwhatis\*O command looks up a keyword, which
may be a command, system call,
library function, or special filename and displays the \*LNAME\*O
line from the reference page.  You can then issue the \*Lman\*O command
to display additional information.
.gL "keyword"
.SH FLAGS
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-M\*O \*Vpathname\*O"
Specifies an alternative search path.  The search path is
a list of directories, separated by \*L:\*O
(colons), in which \*Lwhatis\*O expects
to find the standard manual subdirectories.
(For more information, see the \*Lman\*O command.)
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "whatis command"
.iX "displaying" "command function"
.iX "commands" "displaying function"
.PP
The \*Lwhatis\*O command is equivalent to the \*Lman\*O command with
the \*L-f\*O flag.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To find out what function the \*Lls\*O command performs, enter:
.iS
whatis ls
\*O\c
.iE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/usr/share/man/whatis\*O"
Keyword database.
.LI "\*L/usr/lbin/mkwhatis\*O"
Creates the \*Lwhatis\*O keyword database.
.LI "\*L/usr/lbin/getNAME\*O"
Used by \*Lmkwhatis\*O to extract keywords from the manuals.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lapropos\*O(1), \*Lman\*O(1), \*Lcatman\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
