.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: whereis.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/13 21:44:30 $
.\" 
...\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 1.2
.TH whereis 1
.SH NAME
\*Lwhereis\*O \- Locates files for programs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lwhereis\*O
\*O[\*L\(hybms\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyu\*O]
\*O[\*L\(hyBMS\*O
\*Vdirectory\*O\ \&...
\*L\(hyf\*O]
\*Vprogram\*O\ \&...
.sE
.PP
The \*Lwhereis\*O command locates source, binary, and/or reference page
files for the specified program \*Vprogram\*O.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
The \*L-b\*O, \*L-m\*O, and \*L-s\*O flags can be used in combination
to restrict the search.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-b\*O"
Searches for an executable program.
.LI "\*L-m\*O"
Searches for the reference page for a program.
.LI "\*L-s\*O"
Searches for the sources of a program.
.LE
.PP
Use the \*L-B\*O, \*L-M\*O, and \*L-S\*O flags to
change or limit the places \*Lwhereis\*O searches.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-B\*O \*Vdirectory\*O"
Specifies the binary directories to search.
.LI "\*L-M\*O \*Vdirectory\*O"
Specifies the reference page directories to search.
.LI "\*L-S\*O \*Vdirectory\*O"
Specifies the source directories to search.
.LE
.PP
The other flags that can be used with \*Lwhereis\*O are as follows:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-f\*O \*Vprogram\*O \&.\&.\&."
Terminates the last directory list and signals the start of program names.
.LI "\*L-u\*O"
Used with other flags to indicate when there is no file
for \*Vprogram\*O in the default or specified directory or directories
(source, binary, or reference page).
.\" .zZ "defect, 7879, R1.1.2, change description"
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "whereis command"
.iX "finding" "binary files"
.iX "files" "finding binary and source"
.iX "finding" "source files"
.iX "finding" "reference page files"
.iX "files" "reference page"
.iX "binary files"
.iX "source files"
.iX "reference pages" "files"
.PP
The \*Lwhereis\*O program locates source, binary, and reference pages
for the specified programs.  When looking for a match, the program
names are stripped of leading pathname components and any trailing
extensions of the form \*L\&.\*Vext\*O (for example, \*L\&.c\*O).
Prefixes of \*Ls\&.\*O resulting from the use of the Source Code Control
System see \*Lsccs\*O(1), are also handled.
.PP
The default directories searched by the \*Lwhereis\*O command
are as follows:
.ML
.LI
\*L/etc\*O
.LI
\*L/etc/nls\*O
.LI
\*L/sbin\*O
.LI
\*L/usr/bin\*O
.LI
\*L/usr/lbin\*O
.LI
\*L/usr/lbin/spell\*O
.LI
\*L/usr/ccs/lib\*O
.LI
\*L/usr/lib\*O
.LI
\*L/usr/local\*O
.LI
\*L/usr/hosts\*O
.LI
\*L/usr/sbin\*O
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To find files matching \*Lcat\*O in the default source, binary, and reference
directories, enter:
.iS
whereis cat
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To search for reference pages for \*Lapp13\*O in the directory
\*L/usr/local/man\*O, enter:
.iS
whereis -M /usr/local/man \*V-f\*O -f appl3
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To find the programs in \*L/usr/bin\*O that do not have reference pages
in \*L/usr/share/man/man1\*O with
source files in \*L/usr/src/cmd\*O, enter:
.iS
whereis -u -M /usr/share/man/man1 \e
        -S /usr/src/cmd -f /usr/bin/*
\*O\c
.iE
.\" .zA "defect, 7879, R1.1.2, change wording"
.LI
To find which files in the current directory either
have no reference pages in the default reference directories
or have more than one, enter:
.iS
whereis -m -u *
\*O\c
.iE
.\" .zZ "defect, 7879, R1.1.2, change wording"
.LE
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/etc\*O, \*L/etc/*\*O, \*L/sbin\*O"
Default binary directories.
.LI "\*L/usr/\*O{\*Lbin\*O, \*Llbin\*O, \*Llbin/spell\*O, \*Lccs/lib\*O, \*Llib\*O, \*Llocal\*O, \*Lhosts\*O, \*Lsbin\*O}"
Default binary directories.
.LI "\*L/usr/share/\*O{\*Lcat\*O, \*Lman\*O}"
Default reference directories.
.LI "\*L/usr/src/\*O{\*Letc\*O, \*Lsbin\*O, \*Lbin\*O, \*Llib\*O, \*Llocal\*O, \*Lhosts\*O, \*Lsbin\*O}"
Default source directories.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lapropos\*O(1), \*Lfind\*O(1), \*Lman\*O(1), \*Lwhich\*O(1), \*Lcatman\*O(8).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
