.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: which.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/14 13:52:06 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH which 1
.SH NAME
\*Lwhich\*O \- Locates a program file including aliases and paths
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lwhich\*O
\*Vprogram\*O
\&...
.sE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "which command"
.iX "programs" "locating"
.iX "files" "locating"
.iX "finding" "program files"
.iX "finding" "files"
.iX "aliases"
.PP 
The \*Lwhich\*O command takes a list of program names
and looks for the files that
would be executed if these names were given as commands.
.PP 
Each \*Vprogram\*O argument is expanded if it is aliased and searched for
along your path.  Both the aliases and path are taken from your
\*L\&.cshrc\*O file.  If you do not have a \*L\&.cshrc\*O file, the
path is the current \*LPATH\*O from your environment.
.PP 
The \*Lwhich\*O command is written in \*Lcsh\*O script language and only
works in the C shell.
.iX "C shell"
.iX "shell" "C"
The \*Lksh\*O program offers the built-in commands \*Ltype\*O and
\*Lwhence\*O that perform the same function as \*Lwhich\*O.  The
\*Lsh\*O built-in command \*Ltype\*O can also be used.
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L$HOME/.cshrc\*O"
Read at beginning of execution by each shell.
.LE 
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP 
A diagnostic is given if an executable file with the argument
name was not found in the path.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lwhereis\*O(1)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
