.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: write.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.6.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/03 12:41:26 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.TH write 1
.SH NAME
\*Lwrite\*O \- Sends messages to other users
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.sS
\*Lwrite\*O
\*O[\*L\-r\*O]
\*O[\*L\-n\*O
\*Vnode\*O]
\*Vuser\*O
\*O[\*Vline\*O]
.PP
\*Lwrite\*O
\*Vuser\*L@\*Vnode\*O
\*O[\*Vline\*O]
.PP
\*Lwrite\*O
\*L\-h\*O
\*Vhandle\*L,\*Vreply\*O
.PP
\*Lwrite\*O
\*L\-q\*O
\*O[\*L\-n\*O
\*Vnode\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lwrite\*O command allows you to converse with
another user who is logged in.  The \*Lwrite \-r\*O command sends messages to users on other hosts (usually from a shell
script) and to wait for replies; use
\*Lwrite \-h\*O to reply to such messages.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "write command"
.iX "sending" "messages to users"
.iX "messages" "sending"
.iX "users" "sending messages"
.PP
When two users converse with \*Lwrite\*O, each user alternately
sends and receives short messages from their respective ttys.
.PP
For another user to receive your message, that user
must be logged in and must not have refused message permission.  When a
person you are trying to reach is not logged in, you get the message
\*Cuser is not logged on\*O.  When the person you are trying to reach
has refused message permission, you get the message \*CWrite:
Permission denied\*O.
.PP
When you run the \*Lwrite\*O command, it immediately sends the
following message, along with an attention-getting sound
(three ASCII \*LBEL\*O characters) to the person whose login name you entered.
.oS
Message from \*Vsender\*C on node (tty\*Vnn\*C) [\*Vdate\*C]\&.\&.\&.
\*O\c
.oE
.PP
After successful connection, the \*Lwrite\*O command then sends two ASCII
\*LBEL\*O characters to your terminal to
alert you that whatever you enter
now is being sent to the other user.  Sending continues until
you enter the End-of-File key sequence, at which point \*Lwrite\*O sends
an End-of-Text sequence to the other tty and exits.
.PP
At any point, the other user can respond by sending a
\*Lwrite\*O message back.  For this type of exchange, the following
convention is useful.  When you first \*Lwrite\*O to others, wait
for them to \*Lwrite\*O back before sending any text.  End a
message with a prearranged signal (such as \*Lo\*O for \*Vover\*O)
to alert the other user to reply.
.PP
If the \*L!\*O (exclamation point) character
is found at the beginning of a line,
\*Lwrite\*O calls the shell to execute the rest of the line as a command.
.PP
When you use the \*Lwrite\*O command to contact
a user logged in at more than
one tty, \*Lwrite\*O uses the first login instance found
in the \*L/var/adm/utmp\*O file as the message delivery point, and you get
the message:
.oS
\*Vuser\*C is logged on more than one place.
You are connected to \*Vtty\*C.
Other locations are:
\*Vtty\*C ...
\*O\c
.oE
.PP
You can contact this user at another location by
specifying the line.  \*Vline\*O indicates to
which tty (\*Ltty00\*O, for example) the message should be sent.
.PP
Permission to use the \*Lwrite\*O command to contact another user is granted
or denied by the other user with the \*Lmesg\*O command.
Some commands deny message permission while they are running to prevent
interference with their output.
.PP
.PP
The \*Lwrite\*O command filters nonprintable characters and transmits
them in their printed form (that is, ASCII sequence 001 is transmitted
as \*L^A\*O).
.PP
When the \*Lwrite \-r\*O command is used to send you a
message, you can send a reply of \*Lok\*O, \*Lcancel\*O, or \*Lquery\*O with
\*Lwrite \-h\*O.  (See \*LFLAGS\*O, \*LEXAMPLES\*O and \*LRETURN VALUES\*O).
.PP
An argument of a \*L\-\*O (dash) following the \*Lwrite\*O command
allows you to specify a specific tty to which you
want to write as the second argument.
.PP
Typing characters from \*LLC_TYPE\*O classifications \*Lprint\*O or
\*Lspace\*O causes those characters to be sent to the recipient's
terminal.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
Note that \*Lwritesrv\*O must be running for the \*L\-h\*O, \*L\-r\*O,
and \*L\-q\*O features to work.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-h\*O \*Vhandle\*L,\*Vreply\*O"
Replies to a message sent by a utility or shell script with
\*Lwrite \-r\*O.  The value to be used for
\*Vhandle\*O is generated internally and supplied to you in
the text of the original message.
The reply can be \*Lok\*O, \*Lcancel\*O, or \*Lquery\*O.
(See \*LEXAMPLES\*O and \*LRETURN VALUES\*O.)
.LI "\*L\-n \*Vnode\*O"
Specifies a remote host.  The \*Vnode\*O field may be a
nickname or a node ID.  This flag is used in place of the
\*Vuser@node\*O argument; the two cannot be specified together.
.LI "\*L\-q\*O"
Queries all messages awaiting replies from users on a node
and displays them with their handles.
.LI "\*L\-r\*O"
Generates a message handle, places it in the message header,
sends the message, and waits for a reply.  This flag can be used
for operator messages and can be put in shell scripts.
It is not used for interactive conversations.  (See \*LEXAMPLES\*O and
\*LRETURN VALUES\*O).
.LE
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Lwritesrv\*O daemon must be running on the target host in order
for any of the flags to work.  If you are not using either the \*L\-n\*O
flag or \*L@\*Vhost\*O, but using \*L\-h\*O, \*L\-q\*O, or \*L\-r\*O,
the \*Lwritesrv\*O daemon must be running on your host.
.PP
See \*Lwritesrv\*O(8) for information on how to start or stop the
\*Lwritesrv\*O daemon.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following examples assume that the End-of-File key sequence is
\*L<Ctrl-d>\*O.  The actual key sequence may be different.
.AL
.LI
\*Llucy\*O on \*Ltty3\*O writes a message to \*Lsue\*O on the same node:
.iS
write sue
Meet me in the computer room at 12:30.
<Ctrl-d>
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
\*Lsue\*O sees:
.oS
Message from lucy on node (tty3) [Thu Aug 17 11:55:24 1990]
Meet me in the computer room at 12:30.
<EOT>
\*O\c
.oE
.LI
Holding a conversation:
.iS
write sue
Meet me in the computer room at 12:30.
over
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
\*Llucy\*O then waits for a response from \*Lsue\*O, who replies:
.iS
write lucy
I'm running tests at 12:30.  Can we meet at 3?
over
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
\*Lsue\*O then waits for \*Llucy\*O, who replies and terminates:
.iS
OK--the computer room at 3.
bye
<Ctrl-d>
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
\*Lsue\*O then terminates their side of the conversation.
.LI
To write someone a prepared message, enter:
.iS
write sue <message.text
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This writes the contents of the file \*Lmessage.text\*O
to \*Lsue\*O's terminal.
.LI
To write to the person using a certain terminal, enter:
.iS
write \- console
The printer in building 998 has jammed.
Please send help.
<Ctrl-d>
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
This writes the message to the person logged in on the system console.
.LI
To send a message to user \*Lsue\*O at \*Lnode\*O, enter:
.iS
write \-n node sue
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
or
.iS
write sue@node
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To get a reply to a message, \*Llucy\*O might enter the following:
.iS
write \-r sue console
Please insert next tape.
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
\*Lsue\*O terminates \*Llucy\*O's message with
.iS
write \-h 12345,ok
<Ctrl-d>
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
or
.iS
write \-h 12345,cancel
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
or
.iS
write \-h 12345,query
\*O\c
.iE
.IP
\*Lsue\*O then terminates as usual.
.IP
Note that with the \*L\-h\*O flag, there
is no need to supply the hostname or user ID.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
The \*Lwrite \-r\*O command is used
to send messages to users and to wait for replies.
Their responses determine the exit value:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*Lok\*O"
Exit status 0 (zero).
.LI "\*Lcancel\*O"
Exit status 1.
.LI "\*Lquery\*O"
Message for handle redisplays; \*Lwrite\*O does not exit.
.LE
.PP
An exit status of 2 indicates that the user could not be contacted.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/var/adm/utmp\*O"
Contains user and accounting information.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Lmesg\*O(1), \*Llogin\*O(1), \*Lsh\*O(1), \*Ltalk\*O(1),
\*Lwall\*O(1), \*Lwho\*O(1), \*Lwritesrv\*O(8).
.PP
Files:  \*Lutmp\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
