.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: xclipboard.1X,v $ $Revision: 1.2.6.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/23 19:48:29 $
.\" 
.TH xclipboard 1X "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
xclipboard - X clipboard client
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3xclipboard\fP [ \f2-toolkitoption\fP ...] [-w] [-nw]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f2xclipboard\fP program is used to collect and display text selections 
that are sent to the clipboard by other clients.  It is typically used to
save clipboard selections for later use.  It stores each clipboard selection
as a separate string, each of which can be selected.  Each time clipboard
is asserted by another application, \f2xclipboard\fP transfers the contents
of that selection to a new buffer and displays it in the text window.
Buffers are never automatically deleted, so you'll want to use the delete
button to get rid of useless items.
.PP
Since \f2xclipboard\fP uses a Text Widget to display the contents of the
clipboard, text sent to the clipboard may be re-selected for use in other
applications.  \f2xclipboard\fP also responds to requests for the clipboard
selection from other clients by sending the entire contents of the currently
displayed buffer.
.PP
An \f2xclipboard\fP window has the following buttons across the top:
.TP 8
.I Quit
When this button is pressed, \f2xclipboard\fP exits.
.TP 8
.I Delete
When this button is pressed, the current buffer is deleted and the
next one displayed.
.TP 8
.I New
Creates a new buffer with no contents.  Useful in constructing a new
clipboard selection by hand.
.TP8
.I Save
When this button is pressed, a File Save dialog box is
displayed. Pressing the Accept button saves the currently displayed
buffer to the file specified in the text field.
.TP 8
.I Next
Displays the next buffer in the list.
.TP 8
.I Previous
Displays the previous buffer.
.SH OPTIONS
The \f2xclipboard\fP program accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command 
line options as well as the following:
.TP 8
.B \-w
This option indicates that lines of text that are too long to be displayed on
one line in the clipboard should wrap around to the following lines.
.TP 8
.B \-nw
This option indicates that long lines of text should not wrap around.  This
is the default behavior.
.SH WIDGETS
In order to specify resources, it is useful to know the hierarchy of
the widgets which compose \f2xclipboard\f1.  In the notation below,
indentation indicates hierarchical structure.  The widget class name
is given first, followed by the widget instance name.
.sp
.nf
.TA .5i 1.0i 1.5i
.ta .5i 1.0i 1.5i
XClipboard  xclipboard
	Form  form
		Command  quit
		Command  delete
		Command  new
		Command  save
		Command  next
		Command  prev
		Label  index
		Text  text
	TransientShell  fileDialogShell
		Dialog  fileDialog
			Label  label
			Command  accept
			Command  cancel
	TransientShell  failDialogShell
		Dialog  failDialog
			Label  label
			Command  continue
.fi
.sp
.SH SENDING/RETRIEVING CLIPBOARD CONTENTS
Text is copied to the clipboard whenever a client asserts ownership of the
clipboard selection.  Text is copied from the clipboard whenever a
client requests the contents of the clipboard selection.  Examples of
event bindings that a user may wish to include in a resource configuration
file to use the clipboard are:
.sp
.nf
.TA .5i
.ta .5i 1.6i
*VT100.Translations: #override \\
	<Btn3Up>:	select-end(CLIPBOARD) \\n\\
	<Btn2Up>:	insert-selection(PRIMARY,CLIPBOARD) \\n\\
	<Btn2Down>:	ignore ()

.fi
.TA
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1X), xcutsel(1X), xterm(1X), individual client documentation for how to make a 
selection and send it to the clipboard.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/XClipboard - specifies required resources
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1988, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
.br
See \f2X(1X)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Ralph R. Swick, DEC/MIT Project Athena
.br
Chris D. Peterson, MIT X Consortium
.br
Keith Packard, MIT X Consortium
.EQ
delim off
.EN
