.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: xev.1X,v $ $Revision: 1.2.6.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/23 20:31:56 $
.\" 
.TH xev 1X "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
xev - print contents of X events
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xev"
[\-display \f2displayname\fP] [\-geometry \f2geom\fP]
[\-bw \f2pixels\fP] [\-bs \f2{NotUseful,WhenMapped,Always}\fP]
[\-id \f2windowid\fP] [\-s] [\-name \f2string\fP] [\-rv]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f2Xev\fP creates a window and then asks the X server to send it
\f2events\fP whenever anything happens to the window (such as being moved,
resized, typed in, clicked in, etc.).  You can also attach it to an
existing window.  It is useful for seeing what causes
events to occur and to display the information that they contain.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-display \f2display\fP
This option specifies the X server to contact.
.TP 8
.B \-geometry \f2geom\fP
This option specifies the size and/or location of the window.
.TP 8
.B \-bw \f2pixels\fP
This option specifies the border width for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-bs \f2{NotUseful,WhenMapped,Always}\fP
This option specifies what kind of backing store to give the window.
The default is NotUseful.
.TP 8
.B \-id \f2windowid\fP
This option specifies that the window with the given id should be
monitored, instead of creating a new window.
.TP 8
.B \-s
This option specifies that save-unders should be enabled on the window.
.TP 8
.B \-name \f2string\fP
This option specifies the name to assign to the created window.
.TP 8
.B \-rv
This option specifies that the window should be in reverse video.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1X), xwininfo(1X), xdpyinfo(1X), Xlib Programmers Manual, X Protocol
Specification
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1988, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \f2X(1X)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Jim Fulton, MIT X Consortium
.EQ
delim off
.EN
