.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: xeyes.1X,v $ $Revision: 1.2.6.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/23 21:39:58 $
.\" 
.TH xeyes 1X "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
xeyes \- a follow the mouse X demo
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xeyes
[-option ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xeyes
watches what you do and reports to the Boss.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-fg \f2foreground color\f3
choose a different color for the pupil of the eyes.
.TP 8
.B \-bg \f2background color\f3
choose a different color for the background.
.TP 8
.B \-outline \f2outline color\f3
choose a different color for the outline of the eyes.
.TP 8
.B \-center \f2center color\f3
choose a different color for the center of the eyes.
.TP 8
.B \-backing \f2{ WhenMapped Always NotUseful }\f3
selects an appropriate level of backing store.
.TP 8
.B \-geometry \f2geometry\f3
define the initial window geometry; see \f2X(1X)\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-display \f2display\f3
specify the display to use; see \f2X(1X)\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-bd \f2border color\f3
choose a different color for the window border.
.TP 8
.B \-bw \f2border width\f3
choose a different width for the window border.
.TP 8
.B \-shape
uses the SHAPE extension to shape the window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \+shape
Disables uses the SHAPE extension to shape the window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1X), X Toolkit documentation
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1988, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \f2X(1X)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Keith Packard, MIT X Consortium
.br
Copied from the NeWS version written (apparently) by Jeremy Huxtable as seen
at SIGGRAPH '88
.EQ
delim off
.EN
