.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: xkill.1X,v $ $Revision: 1.2.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/18 00:00:02 $
.\" 
.TH xkill 1X "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
xkill - kill a client by its X resource
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xkill"
[\-display \f2displayname\fP] [\-id \f2resource\fP] [\-button number] [\-frame] [\-all] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Xkill
is a utility for forcing the X server to close connections to clients.  This
program is very dangerous, but is useful for aborting programs that have 
displayed undesired windows on a user's screen.  If no resource identifier
is given with \f2-id\fP, \f2xkill\fP will display a special cursor
as a prompt for the user to select a window to be killed.  If a pointer button
is pressed over a non-root window, the server will close its connection to
the client that created the window.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-display \f2displayname\fP
This option specifies the name of the X server to contact.
.TP 8
.B \-id \f2resource\fP
This option specifies the X identifier for the resource whose creator is
to be aborted.  If no resource is specified, \f2xkill\fP will display a 
special cursor with which you should select a window to be kill.
.TP 8
.B \-button \f2number\fP
This option specifies the number of pointer button
that should be used in selecting a window to kill.  
If the word "any" is specified, any button on the pointer may be used.  By
default, the first button in the pointer map (which is usually the leftmost
button) is used.
.TP 8
.B \-all
This option indicates that all clients with top-level windows on the screen
should be killed.  \f2Xkill\fP will ask you to select the root window with 
each of the currently defined buttons to give you several chances to abort.
Use of this option is highly discouraged.
.TP 8
.B \-frame
This option indicates that xkill should ignore the standard conventions for
finding top-level client windows (which are typically nested inside a window
manager window), and simply believe that you want to kill direct children of
the root.
.SH XDEFAULTS
.TP 8
.B Button
Specifies a specific pointer button number or the word "any" to use when 
selecting windows.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1X), xwininfo(1X), XKillClient and XGetPointerMapping in the Xlib Programmers 
Manual, KillClient in the X Protocol Specification
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1988, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \f2X(1X)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Jim Fulton, MIT X Consortium
.br
Dana Chee, Bellcore
.EQ
delim off
.EN
