.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: xlsclients.1X,v $ $Revision: 1.2.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/18 00:00:44 $
.\" 
.TH xlsclients 1X "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
xlsclients - list client applications running on a display
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xlsclients"
[-display \f2displayname\fP] [-a] [-l] [-m maxcmdlen]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Xlsclients
is a utility for listing information about the client applications 
running on a display.  It may be used to generate scripts representing
a snapshot of the user's current session.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-display \f2displayname\fP
This option specifies the X server to contact.
.TP 8
.B \-a
This option indicates that clients on all screens should be listed.  By 
default, only those clients on the default screen are listed.
.TP 8
.B \-l
This option indicates that a long listing showing the window name, icon name,
and class hints in addition to the machine name and command string shown in
the default listing.
.TP 8
.B \-m \f2maxcmdlen\fP
This option specifies the maximum number of characters in a command to 
print out.  The default is 10000.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
To get the default host, display number, and screen.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1X), xwininfo(1X), xprop(1X)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1989, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \f2X(1X)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Jim Fulton, MIT X Consortium
.EQ
delim off
.EN
