.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: xman.1X,v $ $Revision: 1.2.6.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/11/23 23:28:33 $
.\" 
.\" $XConsortium: xman.man,v 1.19 91/07/31 23:46:11 gildea Exp $
.TH xman 1X "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
xman \- Manual page display program for the X Window System
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xman
[
.I \-options
\&.\|.\|. ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xman
is a manual page browser.  The default size of the initial \f2xman\fP
window is small so that you can leave it running throughout your entire login
session.  In the initial window there are three options:
\f2Help\fP will pop up a window with on-line help, \f2Quit\fP will
exit, and \f2Manual Page\fP will pop up a window with a manual page
browser in it.
Typing Control-S will pop up a window prompting for a specific manual
page to display.
You may display more than one manual page browser window at a time
from a single execution of \f2xman\fP.
.PP
For further information on using \f2xman\fP, please read the on-line
help information.  Most of this manual will discuss
customization of \f2xman\fP.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
Xman supports all standard Toolkit command line arguments (see
\f2X\fP(1X)).  The following additional arguments are supported.
.sp
.IP "\f3\-helpfile\fP \f2filename\fP"
Specifies a helpfile to use other than the default.
.IP \f3\-bothshown\fP
Allows both the manual page and manual directory to be on the screen at
the same time.
.IP \f3\-notopbox\fP
Starts without the Top Menu with the three buttons in it.
.IP "\f3\-geometry\fP \f2WxH+X+Y\fP"
Sets the size and location of the Top Menu with the three buttons in it.
.IP "\f3\-pagesize\fP \f2WxH+X+Y\fP"
Sets the size and location of all the Manual Pages.
.SH "CUSTOMIZING XMAN"
.PP
.I Xman
allows customization of both the directories to be searched for manual pages,
and the name that each directory will map to in the \f2Sections\fP
menu.  Xman determines which directories it will
search by reading the \f2MANPATH\fP environment variable.  If no
\f2MANPATH\fP is found then the directory is /usr/man is searched on
POSIX systems.  This environment
is expected to be a colon-separated list of directories for xman to search.
.sp
.nf
setenv MANPATH /mit/kit/man:/usr/man
.fi
.PP
By default,
.I xman
will search each of the following directories (in each of the directories 
specified in the users MANPATH) for manual pages.  If manual pages exist
in that directory then they are added to list of manual pages for 
the corresponding menu item.
A menu item is only displayed for those sections that actually contain
manual pages.
.ta 1.5i
.nf

Directory	Section Name
---------	------------
man1	(1) User Commands
man2	(2) System Calls
man3	(3) Programming Routines
man4	(4) File Formats
man5	(5) Miscellaneous Information
man7	(7) Special Files
man8	(8) System Administration
manl	(l) Local
mann	(n) New
mano	(o) Old

.fi     
For instance, a user has three directories in her manual path and each
contain a directory called \f2man3\fP.  All these manual pages will appear
alphabetically sorted when the user selects the menu item called
\f2(3) Subroutines\fP.  If there is no directory called \f2mano\fP in
any of the directories in her MANPATH, or there are no manual pages
in any of the directories called \f2mano\fP then no menu item will be
displayed for the section called \f2(o) Old\fP.
.SH "THE MANDESC FILE"        
.PP
By using the \f2mandesc\fP file a user or system manager is able to 
more closely control which manual pages will appear in each of the sections
represented by menu items in the \f2Sections\fP menu.  This 
functionality is only available on a section by section basis, and individual
manual pages may not be handled in this manner.
(Although generous use of 
symbolic links \(em see \f2ln\fP(1) \(em will allow
almost any configuration you can imagine.)
.PP
The format of the mandesc file is a character followed by a label.  The
character determines which of the sections will be added under this label.
For instance suppose that you would like to create an extra menu item that 
contains all programmer subroutines.  This label should contain all manual
pages in both sections two and three.  The \f2mandesc\fP file
would look like this:
.nf     
        
2Programmer Subroutines
3Programmer Subroutines

.fi
This will add a menu item to the \f2Sections\fP menu that would
bring up a listing of all manual pages in sections two and three of
the Programmers Manual.  Since the label names are \f2exactly\fP the
same they will be added to the same section. Note, however, that the
original sections still exist.
.PP
If you want to completely ignore the default sections in a manual directory
then add the line:
.nf

no default sections

.fi
anywhere in your mandesc file.  This keeps xman from searching
the default manual sections \f2In that directory only\fP.  As an example,
suppose you want to do the same thing as above, but you don't think that
it is useful to have the \f2System Calls\fP or \f2Subroutines\fP sections
any longer.  You would need to duplicate the default entries, as well as
adding your new one.
.nf

no default sections
1(1) User Commands
2(2) System Calls
3(3) Programming Routines
4(4) File Formats
5(5) Miscellaneous Information
7(7) Special Files
8(8) System Administration
l(l) Local
n(n) New
o(o) Old

.fi
Xman will read any section that is of the from \f2man<character>\fP, where
<character> is an upper or lower case letter (they are treated distinctly) or
a numeral (0-9).  Be warned, however, that the man and catman commands will 
not search directories that are non-standard.
.SH WIDGETS
In order to specify resources, it is useful to know the hierarchy of
the widgets which compose \f2xman\f1.  In the notation below,
indentation indicates hierarchical structure.  The widget class name
is given first, followed by the widget instance name.
.sp
.nf
.ta .5i 1.0i 1.5i 2.0i 2.5i 3.0i 3.5i
Xman xman	\f2(This widget is never used)\fP
	TopLevelShell  topbox
		Form  form
			Label  topLabel
			Command  helpButton
			Command  quitButton
			Command  manpageButton
		TransientShell  search
			DialogWidgetClass  dialog
				Label  label
				Text  value
				Command  manualPage
				Command  apropos
				Command  cancel
		TransientShell  pleaseStandBy
			Label  label
	TopLevelShell  manualBrowser
		Paned  Manpage_Vpane
			Paned  horizPane
				MenuButton  options
				MenuButton  sections
				Label  manualBrowser
			Viewport  directory
				List  directory	
				List  directory	
				.
				. (one for each section, 
				.  created on the fly)
				.
			ScrollByLine  manualPage
		SimpleMenu  optionMenu
			SmeBSB  displayDirectory
			SmeBSB  displayManualPage
			SmeBSB  help
			SmeBSB  search
			SmeBSB  showBothScreens
			SmeBSB  removeThisManpage
			SmeBSB  openNewManpage
			SmeBSB  showVersion
			SmeBSB  quit
		SimpleMenu  sectionMenu
			SmeBSB  <name of section>
			 	.
				. (one for each section)
				.
		TransientShell  search
			DialogWidgetClass  dialog
				Label  label
				Text  value
				Command  manualPage
				Command  apropos
				Command  cancel
		TransientShell  pleaseStandBy
			Label  label
		TransientShell  likeToSave
			Dialog  dialog
				Label  label
				Text  value
				Command  yes
				Command  no
	TopLevelShell  help
		Paned  Manpage_Vpane
			Paned  horizPane
				MenuButton  options
				MenuButton  sections
				Label  manualBrowser
			ScrollByLine  manualPage
		SimpleMenu  optionMenu
			SmeBSB  displayDirectory
			SmeBSB  displayManualPage
			SmeBSB  help
			SmeBSB  search
			SmeBSB  showBothScreens
			SmeBSB  removeThisManpage
			SmeBSB  openNewManpage
			SmeBSB  showVersion
			SmeBSB  quit

.fi
.SH "APPLICATION RESOURCES"
\f2xman\fP has the following application-specific resources which allow
customizations unique to \f2xman\fP.
.PP
.TP 18
\f3manualFontNormal\fP (Class \f3Font\fP)
The font to use for normal text in the manual pages.
.TP 18
\f3manualFontBold\fP (Class \f3Font\fP)
The font to use for bold text in the manual pages.
.TP 18
\f3manualFontItalic\fP (Class \f3Font\fP)
The font to use for italic text in the manual pages.
.TP 18
\f3directoryFontNormal\fP (Class \f3Font\fP)
The font to use for the directory text.
.TP 18
\f3bothShown\fP (Class \f3Boolean\fP)
Either `true' or `false,' specifies whether or not you want both the
directory and the manual page shown at start up.
.TP 18
\f3directoryHeight\fP (Class \f3DirectoryHeight\fP)
The height in pixels of the directory, when the directory and the manual page
are shown simultaneously.
.TP 18
\f3topCursor\fP (Class \f3Cursor\fP)
The cursor to use in the top box.
.TP 18
\f3helpCursor\fP (Class \f3Cursor\fP)
The cursor to use in the help window.
.TP 18
\f3manpageCursor\fP (Class \f3Cursor\fP)
The cursor to use in the manual page window.
.TP 18
\f3searchEntryCursor\fP (Class \f3Cursor\fP)
The cursor to use in the search entry text widget.
.TP 18
\f3pointerColor\fP (Class \f3Foreground\fP)
This is the color of all the cursors (pointers) specified above.  The
name was chosen to be compatible with xterm.
.TP 18 
\f3helpFile\fP  (Class \f3File\fP)
Use this rather than the system default helpfile.
.TP 18
\f3topBox\fP (Class \f3Boolean\fP)
Either `true' or `false,' determines whether the top box (containing
the help, quit and manual page buttons) or a manual page is put on the screen
at start-up.  The default is true.
.TP 18
\f3verticalList\fP (Class \f3Boolean\fP)
Either `true' or `false,' determines whether the directory listing is 
vertically or horizontally organized.  The default is horizontal (false).
.SH "GLOBAL ACTIONS"
\f2Xman\fP defines all user interaction through global actions.  This allows
the user to modify the translation table of any widget, and bind any event
to the new user action.  The list of actions supported by \f2xman\fP are:
.TP 1.5i
.B GotoPage(\f2page\f3) 
When used in a manual page display window this will allow the user to
move between a directory and manual page display.  The \f2page\fP argument can
be either \f3Directory\fP or \f3ManualPage\fP.
.TP 1.5i
.B Quit()
This action may be used anywhere, and will exit xman.
.TP 1.5i
.B Search(\f2type\f3, \f2action\f3)
Only useful when used in a search popup, this action will cause the search
widget to perform the named search type on the string in the search popup's
value widget. This action will also pop down the search widget. The
\f2type\fP argument can be either \f3Apropos\fP, \f3Manpage\fP or
\f3Cancel\fP.  If an \f2action\fP of \f3Open\fP is specified then xman
will open a new manual page to display the results of the search, otherwise
xman will attempt to display the results in the parent of the search popup.
.TP 1.5i
.B PopupHelp()
This action may be used anywhere, and will popup the help widget.
.TP 1.5i
.B PopupSearch()
This action may be used anywhere except in a help window.  It will cause
the search popup to become active and visible on the screen, allowing
the user search for a manual page.
.TP 1.5i
.B CreateNewManpage()
This action may be used anywhere, and will create a new manual page
display window.
.TP 1.5i
.B RemoveThisManpage()
This action may be used in any manual page or help display window.  When
called it will remove the window, and clean up all resources
associated with it.
.TP 1.5i
.B SaveFormattedPage(\f2action\fP)
This action can only be used in the \f3likeToSave\fP popup widget, and
tells xman whether to \f3Save\fP or \f3Cancel\fP a save of the 
manual page that has just been formatted.
.TP 1.5i
.B ShowVersion()
This action may be called from any manual page or help display window, and
will cause the informational display line to show the current version
of xman.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The \f3xman\f1 client returns the following error message if you
do not have any manpage subsets installed on your system:
.PP
.ta 1.5i
\f3Xman Error:  Could not allocate memory for manual sections\f1
.SH FILES
.IP "\f2<manpath directory>\fP/man<\f2character\fP>" 2.5i
.IP "\f2<manpath directory>\fP/cat<\f2character\fP>" 
.IP "\f2<manpath directory>\fP/mandesc" 
.IP /usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/Xman
specifies required resources
.IP /tmp
.I Xman
creates temporary files in /tmp for all unformatted man pages and all apropos
searches.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR X (1X),
.IR man (1),
.IR apropos (1),
.\" Reinstate catman(8) for V1.4
.\" .IR catman (8),
.IR catman (1),
.I "Athena Widget Set"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 1.5i
.B DISPLAY 
the default host and display to use.
.TP 1.5i
.B MANPATH
the search path for manual pages.  Directories are separated by
colons (e.g. /usr/man:/mit/kit/man:/foo/bar/man).
.TP 1.5i
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 1.5i
.B XAPPLRESDIR
A string that will have ``Xman'' appended to it.  This string will be
the full path name of a user app-defaults file to be merged into the
resource database after the system app-defaults file, and before
the resources that are attached to the display.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1988 by Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \f2X(1X)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHORS
Chris Peterson, MIT X Consortium from the V10 version written by Barry
Shein formerly of Boston University.
.EQ
delim off
.EN
