.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: xstr.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/15 08:52:13 $
.\"
.\" 
.\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.\" 
.TH xstr 1
.SH NAME
\*Lxstr\*O \- Extracts strings from C programs to implement shared strings
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lxstr\*O
\*O[\*L-c\*O]
\*O[\*Vfile\*O
|
\*L-\*O]
.sE
.PP
The \*Lxstr\*O command maintains a file called \*Lstrings\*O
into which strings in component parts of a large program are hashed.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-c\*O"
Extracts strings from the specified file.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "xstr command"
.iX "strings" "extracting from C programs"
.iX "programs" "extracting strings"
.iX "C language" "extracting strings from programs"
.PP 
The strings extracted by \*Lxstr\*O are replaced with references to this array.
This serves to implement shared constant strings, most useful if they
are also read-only.
.PP 
The following command extracts the strings from the C source in \*Lfile\*O,
replacing string references by expressions of the form
\*L(&xstr\*O[\*Vnumber\*O]\*L)\*O for some number.
.iS
xstr -c file
\*O\c
.iE
.PP 
The \*Lxstr\*O command uses \*Lfile\*O as input;
the resulting C text is placed in the file \*Lx.c\*O to then be compiled.
The strings from this file are appended to the \*Lstrings\*O
file if they are not there already.
Repeated strings and strings that are suffixes of existing strings
do not cause changes to the file.
.PP 
If a string is a suffix of another string in the file,
but the shorter string is seen first by \*Lxstr\*O,
both strings are placed in the file \*Lstrings\*O.
.PP 
After all components of a large program are compiled, a file
\*Lxs.c\*O declaring the common \*Lxstr\*O
space can be created by a command of the following form:
.iS
xstr
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
Compile and load this \*Lxs.c\*O file with the rest
of the program.  Some C compilers may, by default, put
strings in a read-only text section.
.PP 
The \*Lxstr\*O command can also be used on a single file.  The following
command creates files \*Lx.c\*O and \*Lxs.c\*O as before, without using or
affecting a \*Lstrings\*O file in the same directory.
.iS
xstr \*Vfile\*O\c
.iE
.PP
It may be useful to run \*Lxstr\*O
after the C preprocessor if any macro definitions yield strings
or if there is conditional code that contains strings
that may not be needed.  The \*Lxstr\*O command
reads from its standard input when the argument \*L\-\*O (dash) is given.
An appropriate command sequence for running \*Lxstr\*O
after the C preprocessor is as follows:
.iS
cc -E \*Vfile\*L.c | xstr -c -
cc -c x.c
mv x.o \*Vfile\*L.o
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
The \*Lxstr\*O command does not touch the file \*Lstrings\*O
unless new items are added, thus \*Lmake\*O can avoid remaking \*Lxs.o\*O
unless truly necessary.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
.AL 3m 
.LI
To extract the strings from the C source in the \*Lfile.c\*O parameter,
replacing string references by expressions of the form
\*L(&xstr\*O[\*Vnumber\*O]\*L)\*O, enter:
.iS
xstr -c file
\*O\c
.iE
.PP
An appropriate declaration of the \*Lxstr\*O array is prepended to
\*Lfile\*O.  The resulting C text is placed in the file \*Lx.c\*O,
to then be compiled.
.LI
To declare the common \*Lxstr\*O array space in the \*Lxs.c\*O
file, enter:
.iS
xstr
\*O\c
.iE
.LE 
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 7m
.LI "\*Lstrings\*O"
File that contains the extracted strings.
.LI "\*Lx.c\*O" 
Modified C source.
.LI "\*Lxs.c\*O" 
C source for definition of array \*Lxstr\*O.
.LI "\*L/tmp/xs*\*O" 
Temporary file when the \*Lxstr\*O command does not touch \*Lstrings\*O.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lmkstr\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
