.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: xwud.1X,v $ $Revision: 1.2.6.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1994/01/20 00:12:09 $
.\" 
.TH xwud 1X "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
xwud - image displayer for X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xwud"
[-in \f2file\fP] [-noclick] [-geometry \f2geom\fP] [-display \f2display\fP]
[-new] [-std <maptype>] [-raw] [-vis <vis-type-or-id>]
[-help] [-rv] [-plane \f2number\fP] [-fg \f2color\fP] [-bg \f2color\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Xwud
is an X Window System image undumping utility.
.I Xwud
allows X users to display in a window an image saved
in a specially formatted dump file, such as produced by \f2xwd(1X)\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-bg \f2color\fP"
If a bitmap image (or a single plane of an image) is displayed, this option
can be used to specify the color to display for the "0" bits in the image.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-display \f2display\fP"
This option allows you to specify the server to connect to; see \f2X(1X)\fP.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-fg \f2color\fP"
If a bitmap image (or a single plane of an image) is displayed, this option
can be used to specify the color to display for the "1" bits in the image.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-geometry \f2geom\fP"
This option allows you to specify the size and position of the window.
Typically you will only want to specify the position, and let the size
default to the actual size of the image.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-help"
Print out a short description of the allowable options.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-in \f2file\fP"
This option allows the user to explicitly specify the input 
file on the command line.  If no input file is given, the standard input
is assumed.
.PP
.TP 8
.B -new
This option forces creation of a new colormap for displaying the image.
If the image characteristics happen to match those of the display, this
can get the image on the screen faster, but at the cost of using a new
colormap (which on most displays will cause other windows to go
technicolor).
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-noclick"
Clicking any button in the window will terminate the application,
unless this option is specified.  Termination can always be achieved
by typing 'q', 'Q', or ctrl-c.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-plane \f2number\fP"
You can select a single bit plane of the image to display
with this option.  Planes are numbered with zero being the least
significant bit.  This option can be used to figure out which plane to
pass to \f2xpr(1X)\fP for printing.
.PP
.TP 8
.B -raw
This option forces the image to be displayed with whatever color values
happen to currently exist on the screen.  This option is mostly useful when
undumping an image back onto the same screen that the image originally
came from, while the original windows are still on the screen, and results
in getting the image on the screen faster.
.PP
.TP 8
.B -rv
If a bitmap image (or a single plane of an image) is displayed, this option
forces the foreground and background colors to be swapped.  This may be
needed when displaying a bitmap image which has the color sense of pixel
values "0" and "1" reversed from what they are on your display.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-std \f2maptype\fP"
This option causes the image to be displayed using the specified
Standard Colormap.  The property name is obtained by converting the
type to upper case, prepending "RGB_", and appending "_MAP".
Typical types are "best", "default", and "gray".  See \f2xstdcmap(1X)\fP
for one way of creating Standard Colormaps.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-vis \f2vis-type-or-id\fP"
This option allows you to specify a particular visual or visual class.
The default is to pick the "best" one.  A particular class can be
specified: "StaticGray", "GrayScale", "StaticColor", "PseudoColor",
"DirectColor", or "TrueColor".  Or "Match" can be specified, meaning
use the same class as the source image.  Alternatively, an exact
visual id (specific to the server) can be specified, either as a
hexadecimal number (prefixed with "0x") or as a decimal number.
Finally, "default" can be specified, meaning to use the same class
as the colormap of the root window.  Case is not significant in
any of these strings.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
To get default display.
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 8
.B XWDFile.h
X Window Dump File format definition file.
.SH SEE ALSO
xwd(1X), xpr(1X), xstdcmap(1X), X(1X)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1988, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \f2X(1X)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Bob Scheifler, MIT X Consortium
.EQ
delim off
.EN
