.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ypmatch.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:44:10 $
.\"
.TH ypmatch 1
.SH NAME
ypmatch \- print the value of one or more keys from an NIS map
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B ypmatch
[\f3\-d\f2 domain\f1\|] [\f3\-k\f1] [\f3\-t\f1] \f2key...\f1 \f2mname\f1
.br
.B ypmatch
.B \-x
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ypmatch command"
.iX "NIS map" "printing key values"
.PP
The \*Lypmatch \*O command
prints the values associated with one or more keys from the
Network Information Service (NIS) map (database) specified by
\*Vmname,\*O
which may be either a
\*Vmapname\*O
or a map
\*Vnickname.\*O
.PP
Multiple keys can be specified.
After the key values and the map name have been
specified, \*Lypmatch\*O searches the map for all of the specified keys.
The specified keys must be exact values in terms of capitalization
and length.
The \*Lypmatch\*O command
does not have a pattern matching capability.
If \*Lypmatch\*O cannot match a key, it produces a diagnostic message.
.PP
The default list of mapnames served by NIS is as
follows:
\*Lpasswd.byname\*O,
\*Lpasswd.byuid\*O,
\*Lgroup.byname\*O,
\*Lgroup.byuid\*O,
\*Lhosts.byname\*O,
\*Lhosts.byaddr\*O,
\*Lnetworks.byname\*O,
\*Lnetworks.byaddr\*O,
\*Lservices.byname\*O,
\*Lrpc.bynumber\*O,
\*Lprotocols.byname\*O,
\*Lprotocols.bynumber\*O,
\*Lnetgroup.byuser\*O,
\*Lnetgroup.byhost\*O,
\*Lmail.alias\*O.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP \f3\-d\f1 0.3i
Displays key values for specified
\*Vdomain.\*O
.IP \f3\-k\f1 0.3i
Displays key, followed by a colon (:), before displaying value of the key.
This is useful if the keys are not duplicated in the returned
values, or if the number of specified keys is so large that the output is
confusing.
.IP \f3\-t\f1 0.3i
Inhibits translation of nickname to mapname.
For example,
.oS
ypmatch \-t zippy passwd
.oE
fails because there is no map named
\*Vpasswd,\*O
while
.oS
ypmatch zippy passwd
.oE
succeeds because \*Lypmatch\*O translates it to
.oS
ypmatch zippy passwd.byname.
.oE
.IP \f3\-x\f1 0.3i
Displays map nickname table.
This option tells \*Lypmatch\*O to list the nicknames (\f2mnames\f1\|)
with their associated
\*Vmapnames.\*O
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following are sample command lines that illustrate how to use the
\*Lypmatch\*O command to access information in each of the maps:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lfHB lfHB
lfR  lfR
lfR  lfR
lfR  lfR .
_
.sp 4p
Mapname@Sample command
.sp 4p
_
.sp 6p
\f(CWpasswd.byname\fP@\f(CBypmatch user1 passwd.byname\fP
\f(CWpasswd.byuid\fP@\f(CBypmatch uid1 passwd.byuid\fP
\f(CWgroup.byname\fP@\f(CBypmatch group1 group.byname\fP
\f(CWgroup.byuid\fP@\f(CBypmatch gid1 group.bygid\fP
\f(CWhosts.byname\fP@\f(CBypmatch host1 host.byname\fP
\f(CWhosts.byaddr\fP@\f(CBypmatch hostaddr1 hosts.byaddr\fP
\f(CWnetworks.byname\fP@\f(CBypmatch network1 networks.byname\fP
\f(CWnetworks.byaddr\fP@\f(CBypmatch netaddr1 networks.byaddr\fP
\f(CWservices.byname\fP@\f(CBypmatch servport/tcp services.byname\fP
\f(CWrpc.bynumber\fP@\f(CBypmatch rpcnum rpc.bynumber\fP
\f(CWprotocols.byname\fP@\f(CBypmatch proto1 protocols.byname\fP
\f(CWprotocols.bynumber\fP@\f(CBypmatch protonum1 protocols.bynumber\fP
\f(CWnetgroup.byuser\fP@\f(CBypmatch user1 netgroup.byuser\fP
\f(CWnetgroup.byhost\fP@\f(CBypmatch host1 netgroup.byhost\fP
\f(CWmail.alias\fP@\f(CBypmatch mailgroup1 mail.alias\fP
.sp 6p
_
.TE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lypfiles\*O(4), \*Lypcat\*O(1)
.br
\*ENetwork Administration and Problem Solving\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
