.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: yppasswd.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/05/26 15:44:23 $
.\"
.TH yppasswd 1
.SH NAME
yppasswd \- change password in Network Information Service (NIS)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B yppasswd
[
\*Vname\*O
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX  "yppasswd command"
.iX  "Network Information Service (NIS)"  "changing password in"
.iX  "password"  "changing in NIS"
The \*Lyppasswd\*O command lets you change your
password in the Network Information Service (NIS) map, a network
data base service.  Only you or the superuser can change your NIS
password.
.PP
When you enter the \*Lyppasswd\*O command, the program prompts
you for the old password and then for the
new password. Note that the passwords are not displayed on the screen.
.PP
Next, the program asks you for the new password again, to
verify that you have typed it correctly.  If you do not type the
passwords correctly, you will receive an error message after you enter
the new password.
.PP
Your new NIS password must meet
.B one
of the following requirements:
.RS 3
.IP \(bu 2
It must be a combination of at least six alphanumeric characters,
.B or
.IP \(bu
It must be a minimum of four characters, with at least one being
non-alphanumeric, such as a control sequence.
.RE
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HBNote\fP
.sp 6p
.RS 5
The \*Lpasswd\*O command does not change the NIS password.
This command only changes the local password file \*L(/etc/passwd)\*O,
and not the NIS master password file.
.sp 6p
.RE
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B "Please use a longer password"
.br
Your new password does not meet the minimum length requirement.
.PP
.B "Mismatch- password unchanged"
.br
You misspelled your new password or its verification.
.PP
.B "couldn't change passwd"
.br
Your new password can not be activated. It must be different from
your old password and your login name.
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 15
\*L/etc/passwd\*O
Password file
.TP
\*L/var/yp\*O
NIS directory
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lpasswd\*O(1), \*Lpasswd\*O(4), \*Lypfiles\*O(4), \*Lyppasswdd\*O(8)
.br
\*ENetwork Administration and Problem Solving\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
