.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: ypwhich.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.2.3 $ (DEC) $Date: 1992/12/10 10:07:07 $
.\"
.TH ypwhich 1
.SH NAME
ypwhich \- determine which host is the current NIS server or map master.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B ypwhich
[\f3\-d\f2 domain\f1\|] [\f3\-V1\f1] [\f3\-V2\f1] [\|\f2hostname\f1\|]
.br
.B ypwhich
[\f3\-d\f2 domain\f1\|] [\f3\-m\f2[mname]\f1\|]\|[\f3\-t\f2[mapname]\f1\|]
.br
.B "ypwhich \-x"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "ypwhich command"
.iX "NIS server" "determining"
The \*Lypwhich\*O command identifies the Network Information Service
(NIS) server that currently supplies NIS
services to an NIS client.  It also identifies which NIS server is the
master for a map.  If invoked without arguments, \*Lypwhich\*O returns
the host name of the NIS server for the local machine.  If
\*Vhostname\*O
is specified, \*Lypwhich\*O checks that machine
to find out which NIS master it is using.
.PP
Refer to \*Lypfiles\*O(4) and \*Lypserv\*O(8) for an overview of NIS.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.IP \f3\-V1\f1 0.3i
Identifies which server is serving
v.1 NIS protocol-speaking client processes.
.IP \f3\-V2\f1 0.3i
Identifies which server is serving
v.2 NIS protocol-speaking client processes.
.IP
If neither version is specified, \*Lypwhich\*O attempts
to locate the server that supplies the
current v.2 services.  If there is no v.2 server currently
bound, \*Lypwhich\*O attempts to locate the server supplying the v.1 services.
Since NIS servers and NIS clients are both backward compatible,
the user need seldom be concerned about which version is currently in
use.
.IP \f3\-d\f1 0.3i
Uses
\*Vdomain\*O
instead of the current domain.
.IP "\f3\-m\f2 [mname]\f1" 0.3i
Finds the master NIS server for a map.  No
\*Vhostname\*O
can be specified with
.B \-m.
The
\*Vmname\*O
argument can be a mapname, or a nickname for a map.
When
\*Vmname\*O
is omitted, \*Lypwhich\*O provides a list of available maps.
.IP "\f3\-t\f2 mapname\f1" 0.3i
Inhibits nickname translation and is useful if there is a
\*Vmapname\*O
identical to a nickname.
.IP \f3\-x\f1 0.3i
Displays the map nickname table.
This option lists the nicknames (\f2mnames\f1\|)
that the command knows of, and indicates the
\*Vmapname\*O
associated with each
nickname.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lypfiles\*O(4), \*Lrpcinfo\*O(8), \*Lypserv\*O(8), \*Lypset\*O(8)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
